This is a little purse to put your coins in it. And when you open it, there is this little bird which is printed inside. This is a little bit of fun.

This is not outspoken, but you want to keep that little thing because you feel it has been made for you. This is an envelope with this little detail of color. You know such kind of envelope.

And with this little detail of color, then it's alive somehow. There is this little detail is breaking from life. Then there you go.

Maybe you were born. This was grown as usual with a white fade. And some products.

So we reuse this layering feeling inside the street is taller with this inlay here, which is much more soft inside. So we have the hard part with the Turing, a soft textile which is a bit rough with 600D or something. And this inlay inside, which is much more soft.

And also this double textile inside. Yeah. And we have put some toys.

Yes. On your very own. We have some toys to draw.

And so that's the tree direction of inspiration that we are using to build a new design from Axecozy. So this was for the brand itself. And now I don't have the big document for the strategy of the somebody.

But this middle line is very interesting. Because this middle line represents what is necessary to build in the company. Dorel needs to build global offer.

So we need to make products not only for Axecozy, for Sechti first also, for Queenie. That are global, so they're local. In global, they're in the keep work.

That's the room. Go and knock on. All the products are the same from a global point of view, but there are some little adaptations from a local point of view.

Global, local, wrong work. If we add this really everywhere in the world, maybe the textile with the different, the material it's a can be different from United States, Asia, Europe. Then this is local adaptation.

Local means one country or one community. So all the Maxi-Cosini. Now this is the strategy of the company to make global offers.

All our product needs to be ready for the new business models. New business models means Internet, of course, because we're more completely ready for Internet in Dorel. We need to be ready in the future for the second hand market.

Second hand market. Resub. You buy a new product.

Yes, and you will send to another one. But maybe Dorel can purchase this product to you. You buy it once.

I am Dorel. I purchase it to you. I create it.

I stamp it and I put it again on the label. Because we had that discussion in the lab. I was talking about second hand.

But what I say to you is that today we are doing good products for second hand, but we have no benefits or low benefit with that. Yeah. Tomorrow, what do we want to do?

We want to get some benefit from that. So maybe as Yelse, buy. Okay, we buy your whole product.

We refurbish it. And we sell it again as a second hand product. So we get a benefit from that.

And that means that in the design, in the conception of the project, we must anticipate this in order to have two parts to replace. And these parts can be easily replaced or refreshed. And that's one.

We need to whip the other bump key component. Whipping. We have good design, good design and also the materials collection.

Well, then, in the body we can pay. It can be used for three years, five years. In future, maybe we need to attend the life of the key component.

Maybe we can make them easy to change. They're like, we are going to change the wheel. And with the...

We were talking about the brake mechanism. We say, okay, brake is safety. You want to be able to change the brake when you buy a throttle.

And we pass it. The brake mechanism is a part of safety. You just remove one screw, remove the brake mechanism, put another one, screw it.

That's done within three minutes in France, for example. But it's done. New brake for my smaller.

What is an example? It's a brake in Boda, you know. But remember, if we wait, we spend a lot of time to renew the tools for the product.

Of course, even more than we build new door. Absolutely. Make the time to make that.

Yeah. You understand? So the new business model are internet at first.

Second hand market. Second day. Customization.

Customization means the consumer can choose the color, can choose maybe the accessories. And we have to be able to deliver. So some option, you need some option.

And the last business model is the leasing. Leasing. Renty.

Yes, renty. I give you my product and you give me $5 every month. And when the baby is grown up enough, you give me back the product.

So this is the leasing. And leasing is important because we have one project in the company, which is called Wallaby. You heard about the Wallaby project?

I know about that. I have a thing to work on there. This is, we will present you a Wallaby.

And Wallaby project is based only on leasing. Renty, to me. And we would be the wheels, the strontar forward.

So really, has to be inside the leasing key step. Is this a project coming out after all just for greedy content? For the moment, for really just for the moment.

The new project we're going to, or actually. In the future, at the partial review. Yeah.

Okay. Okay. And there is a strong link with what you said just before, refurbishing.

Because if you rent a stroller or a car seat and you take it back, you will have to rent it again to another customer. So maybe you will have to refresh something to replace something. So it's neat, strong need the key.

And we need to evaluate. Yeah, that's the version. Yeah, we need to evaluate, replace exactly what we need, not more on the place.

And it has to be easy to be done. So I don't follow in France or all across the world. Small centers, okay, they just refresh.

It's easy to do within five minutes. It's dark. Up, put it again.

And then. The mouth, but I thought I would refresh the prep about the component. The way I think about those components can be cycle.

I mean, what is also not a worry to wake up the prep. And all the work that we have to do it out with money. It has to be sustainable.

So it's easy to recycle as possible. So also. And so this is a strategy for our company.

Make local offer, be ready for the new business model, make scale savings. Scale savings means we invest only once for several products. And of course, differentiation.

Differentiation, our product must be, must be different from the competition. And so all of this, this is the need for our company because the constraint for our market is there. We have the values facing a global market now worldwide.

There are new cons, the consumer are changing their behavior. And there is also the sustainability. They are conscious, consumer conscious.

So that's why we need to be ready for business model. The company ask us to limit our investment. So we invest loans for several products.

Our competition is very, very strong. Stronger and stronger. We saw it with the SAP Group and other key groups now.

And the last one is that we have a portfolio, portfolio, meet all of our strollers. They are very different now. It's so done this way.

Yeah. So, OK. So the rel has been built because the rel family is buying companies and companies.

They buy, they bought Maxi Cosi, they bought Lerado, both the company, et cetera. So at the end, finally, in the catalog of Maxi Cosi, the strollers are very, very different. There is no link between strollers.

There is no styling link. There is no value link. There is not a lot functionally easier.

So it makes very different. So consumer, when they enter in a shop and when they are looking at internet, they see all of these products, which are very different and they cannot believe in the company because product are different. If all the products are almost the same, then it means that there is a good process in the company.

If we show deep end for us, it gives the feeling that our process is not consistent. So this is something which is important because when a consumer see one product and he's here, he can hear on internet or in the shops or by friends that this product is good. If the consumer see another product which look like the former one and he understood that this one is good, then he will believe that the new one is good because they are similar.

So he believe that the company who could all this effort there could also all this effort in there. Meaning coming to the Pupili tradition, both the product to another product, new product. You were talking about A4, the brand between the iPhone, the iPad, the Mac and the the last one you can say, okay, this is the same brand, even if it is to high the brand.

And I think if the iPhone has a good reputation, you say, okay, of course the iPad will be good also. Because of the very complex. In Boktoy, one of the main regions where there are Maxi Cosi, one of the main components, like the accusing, for the same patterns that you want, that the stronger situation is not good.

But that is why you saw some factory, Uppelut, with a really project. It's what we have, we have the Lula, the Streetie, which we like to say more, Shoei, ENS, written on DNA. So the history of Shoei with Beteldofordon, we had some kind of product I sped up.

Then I showed more and need to fit a special market. German, German, it was not really a strategic approach. It was not a pushing approach or opportunity or reality.

And we need something for Germany or we need something to fight Kippo. But the currency of the range was not so good. So what we want to do is to have a really range with consistency.

But we feel that yes, it's a Maxi Cosi product. But you must keep it for all the local needs. For that reason, there is a well co-opted form.

And then to fit with specific needs, we will change some few points of the platform to fit with the local market needs. Instead of making a large color for, I'll jump for US, one for...