This is the entry level on the market, this is the middle level, and this is what we call the best high level product in the market. So because we have those values, MaxiCosy should be there. If we remove for example high trustable quality and MaxiCosy signature, maybe 5C plus it would be there.

Because we have these values, this is the only possible position. We cannot position MaxiCosy there, or there, or there, or scratch. Or yes, a good point, we cannot stretch this with this value, we cannot stretch the brand from here to there.

What we used to do in the past, or trying to do in the past, in the past with Lula for example, we tried to stretch the brand from here to there. That is very difficult because we have one given price, this is not specific value, so it's not possible to stretch. The Nord-Uvenflow company, they have the issue on their brand strategies.

They only have one Uvenflow brand with different level of the product. So it's why I'm in the cut, thank them all. The Uvenflow brand is quite good, but I buy it with a low price, but the quality really depends on the Uvenflow's level.

And then the image of the brand is also bad. Yes, but that's why they are branding the decreasing in the cut here. Now, COVID-19, they want to stop it, so they put the Uvenflow brand on the top of the Lego, in the U.

S. market. Do you know, it's like a Volkswagen, they wanted to have high level products, but at the same time, historically, they were selling not cheap, but middle-hand products.

There was something more like that, so they called Skoda, they called the brand Skoda, so Skoda is the entry product and Volkswagen moved it. So they had to buy a brand, Roto did the same with Dacia, so on tea. Okay, so today, that's not our strategy, we don't want to create a new brand, so I'm not sure, but it's and then move up my C-Cosi, we want to be here, that's the best, same.

They are part of the good, okay? For the good, it's not our target, it'll be. So it means, if our position for my C-Cosi or really project is here, then this is our competition.

We will not fight Kiko, I do not. Stop Kiko, Dren. Kiko.

Actually, we are packing with Kiko in the city side, they are moving up, where there is an argument of fighting, although there are a lot of stocks they need to pay, before they move up there soon. Yeah, rather than talking about it, we will not fight Kiko, we will not fight Bugaboo, we will just appeal, just below Bugaboo, or Bugaboo, you know? Dren, I guess, told me about the good beam, or booby, kind of, the elite Bugaboo.

I thought we are the men's team. Now, they say this is a good, excellent, bright image, bright image, deep-locked product. What a good, but not so hydrated, but bright image is very high.

We will show you some products later in the week. You will see personally, I don't like the hard parts, but I can, why so many people, they like it. Maybe I'm still a technical guy, so I don't like it.

That's why it looks not the technical feeling, double-arbalo fashion. This is the, such can, when you have a very high brand image, you don't buy only the You buy a little piece of identity. We, we raise, when you buy a BMW, you will not only buy another car, but buy a piece of identity.

You are stronger, staggers. Yeah, and I think, Tud, Bugaboo, even there in the same level, in the market, but their product ran at a completely different, Tud, bringing the most good quality fit into the giveaway, which don't taller, what a big one, John White's able, but the boy is another thing like the fashion. Yeah, well, good, thank you.

So before we were somewhere here with Maxi Cosi, and now we are leveling up, but leveling up means we also need to level up this, as Nikola said, you need to have excellent quality finish, the fly. And we will also raise the price of a product, 30. 3.

But, probably, if Steny said, we must say that we increase the seller price in the Toyota, what should I think about, are there more friendly fit, we can bring to Toyota, while we are acting for a product increase, more sales. You know, I used to take that example of the Mini, the car, okay, do you think that is the Mini cost, how to call it, in France, for example, okay, the Mini, the first one, the minimal, the cost is about a 15,000 euro, okay, for this, for that cost, you can get a car with more equipment, a bigger one from other brands, like Renault, I don't know which one. So you say, okay, it's crazy.

And do you think that if the Mini cost was lower than this, around 10,000, I mean, close to the small car we have, do you think that Mini will sell so many cars? No, of course not. It's psychological, the price, that's the message behind this also, saying, okay, the plastic is rich enough to make a bigger margin, you don't care.

If we can do, yeah. That is my resource, I saw which, the important, really, was to be as close as to the car, you know how, how, how to do it today, here, okay. So that only one brand today, like, I see it's out here, I'll store it for a year, or I'll have something more.

So, stroller must be at the sale of a little car seat, because car seats, it's really, we have in Mexico, everyone knows, we must be bulging with car seats, but it's the nearest to Europe, they don't know where we went as a stroller. We should have the time to have the opportunity of general taxi because he's world. Yeah, with our product, we need to have the same network, yeah.

Otherwise, the stroller, during the image, we'll lower down the car seat. But does it mean that for our product, we have a higher brand image, then our cost could be a little bit higher than previous. So bro, manufacturing cost, yeah, it's a bit high trustable quality.

But for example, what we give to the target for this car, for tender version, this one, without, or without extra steel. Or just a single, in-car show or with bones. It's echoed by one large body.

You see the presentation. No, it's the best, good story from here, that's take the Noah and take the Stela or Miu. So, you got a bit on the functional, the camper operation, but it's not bad as it was because it's a little bit simple.

So, it's great. And it's in the US for a ride. So, the next one, we give you a little presentation about the MaxiCaD signature, how we make a MaxiCaD product, how we are inspired to make MaxiCaD designs.

So, we decided with the team years ago to build and to write down the DNA. Because it's of course in the minds of all the designers in the company and stylists. But at some one day, we decided to write it down, to create a little book here.

And this is the Bible for the designers in the headroom. Thanks to this, we have the stylus on one side for the textile part and the product on the other side. MaxiCaD only MaxiCaD is available.

We have the same for Quidditch and we have one for 64. MaxiCaD and Dedéconfort. Knowing that, yeah, this is the brand Dedéconfort also, but this is the MaxiCaD rail.

Because originally, the Dedéconfort was a little bit different. But we decided not to merge them together, but to keep only MaxiCaD. Because Dedéconfort is a local brand, only for so-so field.

So, we asked this brand strategy. Brand strategy is defined by the marketing. And from this brand strategy, we defined the DNA of the brand itself.

And we split it into the styling and product design. And also communication is coming from the brand strategy.