we decided that we want in our product high-trustable quality. Uh, high-trustable quality means that when we look at the product the first time, when we see the product for the first time, we say, oh, this is a very high-quality product. We did not touch, we didn't remove, we did not shake, but we can see only by the eyes this is high-quality product.

Right? We can, we have many solutions. We respond to that.

And if you look in the details as a technician, this is not good, this is not good. Anyway, for a consumer, okay, high-coms, one, but when we finish, many, many answers. And the last five fifth value is the MaxiCosi signature.

Signature, sure, means style. Our own MaxiCosi style. And MaxiCosi style is then on the north of the Europe sky in Netherlands, not in France.

France is a little bit different, but we decided that this, the success of MaxiCosi, this is the most important product for MaxiCosi Bay. This, we are selling it at 250,000 units a year, which is huge. It is 30% of the market share in Europe, which is absolutely huge.

And this success is also, so this success is due to its high value, but also the specific kind of MaxiCosi, which is very simple, simple shape, easy to understand, trust me. A little bit what we call the Nordic, we call it here Nordic style, not the Orox style. Nordic style.

Yes. That's simple. But for it, we have the sound deco key, for example, DJ Yukim has due up the stimulus party, they say the crazy, let's copy the table, be done, we decide it.

And put it on the US market by chip, it's not, well, not, we will accept by the consumer, but we stop the production for money. Okay, I have two answer products, the first one, this is a bad copy. It has been designed by US team without any designer for you from Europe.

Okay, so this is not, we consider this is not really Nordic style. Okay, I can, so this is not a very much emphasis here. Second reason, when you want to build the brand, you are, and you want to build it worldwide, you have two way to build your own style.

Either you choose the Samsung way. Samsung is putting a design office in every country in the world because they are designing the product for each country. The Polar Chromatate.

One, the product are very different from one country to another. They do not build a washing machine, same in England, in UK, then in Japan. They are very different.

So they decide to, what is the best at that location? Actually, this is Samsung way. Second way is BMW way, the car maker.

They decide to build German shop and they sell it everywhere in the world. But everywhere in the world, the cars are in succeeded. They export in their value, their style.

It needs a little city seat. Both way are good, both way are good, but we choose, as Maxi Cosi brand, a BMW way. With some local adaptation, which is the way of...

We are in the middle. We are more versus BMW. Some adaptation, we will talk about it with Rili, of course.

Some country we need a little bit adaptation, but not sure. The styling itself will be, as BMW, we will export our style. So it's a deeper, different approach.

We sell differently. We need to be much more careful on the styling itself. We need to train salesmen, we need to train commercial people.

But this is what they decide. BMW is maybe a little bit adapting the author, but the car is the same. And sometimes in that country, they are putting more, I don't know, seats and leather, I don't know, or air acclimatization, or I don't know what accessories.

But you can have that accessory everywhere in the world. But in that country, maybe they put more on the cars just because people in that country, they like more. But it's just a little adaptation, the product that's what...

It's exactly the same. Safety first is a different way. Safety first is adapting to most of the country.

To product our little bit different. With safety first, the US product, we saw it from the app, the TANOW, the text type. The entire cover is different for US than for Europe.

So safety first is much more adapted. With Maxi Cozy, you know what to protect. This specific style, because we believe that this specific style is a part of the big success of Maxi Cozy Prok.

And we like this kind of strategy. The same product for different regions. This is because simplified the platform and we can put more resources for one product.

It's exactly the scale of the really project. What we didn't do in the past. For example, we had a good...

Very good extend to you, but each product we developed in Europe. And the adapter. You break mechanism, you need a view.

And we don't break some break for the destroyer. We have some solidity to debug it. For the consumer, they say that the break, if you win that set of destroyer due to the break.

Just want to have a good break. I have a data product for some normal functions. To continue with that function now, a good quality.

Exactly that. But we don't need a really beautiful autoload. So we make this different like the break system.

But for some autoload, for example, handle. We might have different design for the consumer. For that, we can have different handle bar share for the datamans.

But for the break system, we can design it in the same way. That's the money and make it... A good example is the 3D40.

We made that study. We say, okay, you know the difference 3D to this function. Okay, we say, okay.

Is it a bit funny? Baby consorts, his management, 3D, folding, swarms. If you look at our range, Me, Maya, Lula, and all in 3D, and if you look to the world, you have looked to the world, you say, okay, most of the destroyers are 3D folding.

3D folding is limited to Europe. South Europe, too deep for 3D. And we are all people with 3D folding.

But it's not what's important. Why? And when you look to the world, you say, okay, people they don't need, they don't want.

They don't care about 3D folding. What they want, they want something convenient, contact, I can put it in my trunk or... Okay, if you can reach the target with 3D, let's do 2D, why 3D?

I know this is too... I think the talk called this point, I think that he... He got the map thing, he played the chain.

For Lula, the board of Lula, at 3D, mapping, we have a 3D folding really compact. So for Lula, we quit the cell. But now I think the consumer, they change it, they are neat.

So, more and more 2D folding, the stroller come in. But for the next 5 or 10 years, with stroller, with the old step by the... Not for...

Not for... Period. Yeah, he say the...

the big building, or they say forget about the technical thing. So when we say 2D, 3D, we are talking about technical things. So, and it's an answer.

Yeah, the consumer don't know. Yeah, it's an answer. The consumer want something convenient, compact, I can store it in my trunk, in my house.

That, he don't... doesn't care about 3D, 3D, okay, I don't care, I will fold it. And it has to be compact.

It's compact, and you have to do... To build our brand image, we have those 5 values to gain the product. And those 5 values are, by themselves, are giving the height of the product on the market.

This is... such kind of value cannot be low end. This cannot be low end product.

Because we have this specific signature here. We are product which are very easy to use here, with a high level of comfort, and high level of finishing and structure. So, all of this means that MaxiCosy should be...

This is the positioning of the market.