So this document, I will go through it very quickly, is the style guide made by the communication. This is just to talk about the communication. So the communication team has this guide, this one is a little bit old, but in this communication tool, you have all, so it has been made by the Anastasov-Archie, you have all the information to make communication through consumer through internet, through advertising, through TV show, you have the language, how to make photography, how to make good act, to use good actors under the advertising, what should be the tone of voice, visual identity.

So this document is taking the control of the communication. So there are, we want parents to, on photography to be always happy, of course, joy, joy is an important value. This is the second important by BigPo, to Blanda, trust and joy.

Guidelines for photography, we want spontaneousness as in real life, realistic, honest, on the spot, fun, again, joy. So this document is for the communication agency, so they can build the advertising, for example, I made these papers or documents. So this is what we don't want.

We don't want these fake, we don't want static things. We don't want this. So this is for casting.

I will not go into all the details, but this is for you to understand the brand image. I'm going back on it. So we talk about behavior.

We are not very strong on that. We are, we can be strong on communication, but our investment in Dorel is not very high on communication. In the US, I don't know, but in Europe, we have communication, communication costs a lot, but we do not insist a lot in communication in Dorel.

This is a company decision. What we are doing a lot in Dorel is we invest a lot here. So it personally, we put too much in the product.

When you are building something, they don't know. Actually, it will do after we speak good quality product, but Condom can't adapt it. We can hear.

We agree on that. This is a years ago that we agree on that. Maxi Cosi, building comfort also, they grew up trying to product only without communication, very low amount of communication.

They grew up like this and they became big company without communication. Dorel in the US is not communicating a lot. I don't know too much, but I think they are not communicating a lot.

They grew up by product. So this is cultural in our company. This is a company which is not growing up by communication.

So we have to buy from maybe in the last years or some new brands arrive on the market and then to do a lot of communication. Their products are not better than our products. But when you look at their product, if you look at the price and the quality of the product, where you are like us, when you know this, that business, I mean, you say, okay, why not about the new rule for this, but we are doing better and we are setting it at 400 real.

I don't know. Anyway, it's not as Yal said, they didn't build it on the product quality, maybe on the product image. When look at Goobabie or Lucky, they put a lot of investment on the communications.

They introduce their company, their brand on Europe and also in the US. But they do introduce their product, specific product. They don't introduce their Goobabie brand and their company.

Goobie, is it wish to own that communication? Do you know today if it's working or not? At the moment, I have a lot of update from Goobabie, but if you compare children, they are stronger at land errors on the communication.

But for the product, they are all weak. I believe we all believe in this company that we should invest more in communication. We all believe this, but we push the information that's all we can do.

Our role is to work on fraud. We can give the message to their marketing team, but they know where. They ask for more money to communicate, but they know this is a company decision.

We don't invest communication. So we have to take it as it is and push the message. So all of this to insist on the fact that we will build the brand image, not by behavior, not by communication, but mainly by product.

So our role and our mission here is very important. We don't have a lot of means to invest in behavior. We don't have a lot of money to invest in communication.

We have to invest in products. So the consumer will build his image and the consumer will decide if Mexico is positive or negative, mainly by the product. So this is a challenge for us.

We can really see that we have to build safe communicating products. So this is why in our product, we are investing a lot in design, in the industrial design in the company, because somehow the industrial design helps to give this positive image, this value to the consumer. So now let's see, let's look at the value of the brand.

We have decided, this is a decision. We have studied the story of MaxiCosi. We have studied the product and we have decided that the good values of the MaxiCosi product are those values here.

Finally, a consumer has to, need to have trust in our product. This is mandatory. We are building trust.

We are building confidence and our product should be joyful, pleasant, not too serious, not too technical, but they should give joy to the consumer. And to build that, we have five sub-vannues and all of our product needs to be built with these five values as days. Previously, in the previous years, when we built the new store, we decided, oh, let's say you have a new concept here, let's build around this concept.

And at the end, when the product is finalized, we just stick MaxiCosi on it, or we stick better comfort, or we stick safety first. That's it. But there is no strong value if we remove the sticker and we put good baby on it.

Maybe it can do also the job, because there are no strong sets of value inside the product. And here, with the team, here with Xavier, with Nicolas, with the rest of the team, we started to build this product from the very beginning with those five values here. We decided we want a product which is really increasing.

We want a product which has a friendly child comfort. Friendly means it's a bit like a hug, so we decided that we want a smooth transition each time we are making an operation. When we start with the baby in the car, to take out the baby, to take the baby in the arm, to open the trunk of the car, to take the product, the store out, to unfold it, to put the baby inside and start to roll, everything has to be smooth, without pain in the back, without frustration for the consumer.

At each little step, the consumer should be happy. It's very easy to open, oh so easy to understand, oh my child is so comfortable. Like a consumer I've always to be very happy about.

The meaning lighter, not easy to put in, the good means that one and depends on that. That means lighter can be one solution, but this is not the only one. Sometimes you have very heavy parts which are very easy and very nice to move and enter.

This is not a light problem, but this is a successful product. So 10. 3 kilos, that's a lot.