The US Kim, they can't say that that stroller is a target for their market, so they can't ask us. Peace guys, take this one, do a stroller like this, but better on this, on this, on this, on this, and say to you at the same time, yes, but we want the real price, yes, but you can't, and when we ask them, do you know the weight of that stroller really? They say less than 13kg, and that means that they don't know the real weight, they don't know the weight indicated on the website, because it's written 13kg on the website, they're 40kg less than this, so it's very severe, in fact, that's for their weight, 13.

3kg. So you know for them, the weight is really important, and they say to you, ok, the target is not more than 12kg. You know what, they always tell you, something number is changing, they always tell you the other, warm up, target came out, those customers are at the lower level, meaning they can sell a lot of quality, got the price of real low, but Abu Bebi, they already sell this on Bye Bye Baby, top level, through Retail, but our people forget it, or they try it, but they think it's difficult, then they stop it, it requires still gear, actually, we will not allow a cut in the US market.

So in terms of company level, so you are the constraint of the milk here, you are then the nib, and this is in the bottom of the solution, that you want to apply the real minimum copy, adaptable platform, one platform that can trade several products, a product which is ready for refurbishing in the city of Hen or Retail, the same components for all the drivers, as much as possible. And regarding competition, assumed choice, assumed choice means that we are making one choice, which is maybe not the choice that please everybody, but this is our choice, because this is our value, as BMW, they are making German cars because they believe in German cars, so we are making our own style because we believe in our own style, and we also want to invest in storytelling and communication, and of course we really have to make a coherent and innovative range. So that's it for the brand and the value presentation, do you have any more questions regarding the earth?

Let's talk about one thing I want to highlight here, for the rental or destruction, we refer to it for rental, meaning we should have considered the design for the aluminum roof right, now we have, sometimes we put the underweight, or we change the profile to make it thinner, or have a light weight, or have a really simple shape, but this wouldn't bring out the table in the future. For example after 2x EN test, we have worn out or damage on the aluminum, but it still compare with the EM, in future it will say the stroller can be renewed or repulsed, I don't think we can change the aluminum tube, meaning the aluminum tube should have a really strong design profile. How do you remove your material?

Material, design, design, I need a profile, with the minus, so the stroller will be the one that will be required in the future, so I will say I have been doing it for 2 years, ok no problem, but I am willing to open it, open it. For the Muli, for the regular project, perhaps the decision will be made, if we paint this forbidden, it will be only a halodization, because maybe that halodization is so. It's a lot, a lot of halodization ok?

Yes, look, you are scratching, because if we put a painting for a product which needs to be a rent, yeah, so perhaps we will have for example the decision for the friend, for the Wallavi, one fan will be a halodization, or the other range will be painting or something else. Yeah, it's a good halodization. It's a good example, that's the way I see this for me, from a technical design point of view, that means that every time we design something, you have to ask yourself this question and say, is my design compliant with this?

I mean, it's easy to install, to remove, to replace, is it sustainable? I mean from scratch to the recycling and all that, so every time, any route that you put, any shape you design, you must ask this question and at winning it will be maybe a bit difficult, but once it's in your mind, you will not ask, ok, take the checklist, no, it will be a reflex, ok, yeah, ok. I think like this, I design like this, and it has a lot of good consequences also, because if your design is simple, easy to install, to remove, that means that on the production lines, it will be also easy to install, to replace, to maintain, to manage it also.

It has a lot of benefits on everything, yeah. And also for the P&P, we also need to take it into account, we will make the QP, for example, standard is 2x yen, but after 2x yen, we need to think about the time, just the design. I know, because we have also to make a good balance when it cannot make over 20, because the product will be too heavy or too...

First to identify which component which team is not repressed more in the future, so we put on that key component that made the fact pick the QP for that, not completed point. But we ask to the QA engineer in Sholaire, which is called Vincent, to base this SPT on this Vannis, those values should be at the top of the QP plan, to make sure that the consumer find. So, if you don't have any question regarding this, I think this is over for this presentation, and this afternoon, after lunch, we can present you the Willy project.

I think about the rental market, maybe we need to think about how many types we want to reuse in this plot. And that would divide our QP. For the one type, maybe one heritage, they just use this for their future, maybe for one year.

And then we can think about, so we need to use this for the second year for another. As far as I know, the Wala B, they believe in the 7-year plan, a stroller has to be able to be used during 7 years, including the refurbishment. So, in the kind of market, in China, the policy already changed.

Now, it's around every family, second day. But in the part, you know what I mean, if you have a boy, and also if you work for government, you are not allowed to have a second baby, but not completely. So, it's okay.

Now, the economy in China is not good, so not so many families, they want to have a second baby. In fact, in the future, 4 or 3 years of the economy coming up, they have to have more and more families, they will have a first baby and take a baby. So, I think you also think about it.

Let's try the market, big market. Another idea about Rang, when we think about the Rang Tower market, nearly we can think about, for this plot, which part is most important and it's very difficult to regret, then we can spend our money, it's called drug managerial, we don't need to replace the managerial. So, it means we need to spend a lot, not only managerial, but for the wheel, it's easy to replace.

So, the managerial, we maybe need to pass 3 highs of the year. The wheel, no, we don't need to replace it, it's easy to replace. Ok, select...