This is our mindset. This is the let's say stag values to design a MaxiCosy product. All the MaxiCosy products, I mean in the the item set, they need to be steel.

Steel means something like very calm, till water. So, yes, such kind of curve is what we call a steel curve. Very soft.

This is not aggressive. This is relaxing. Steel.

Yeah. That can be the mean bold and fine bold. So we're working on the detail.

We should remember the user. The one we create, the new part, which is called a visible part. We should remember that everyone is the mode of a curve.

Sometimes you may not understand why the antiquities so much for this of that shape is close to the shape. No, it's because of this. But for hidden things we can discuss, we can arrange for very visible things.

No discussion, no compromise. Nostalgic means the positive memories, positive remembrance. This seat is very similar to the very first seat that has been designed 20 years ago.

Yeah, still some common, I don't have the feature, sorry, the good shape that parents, the mothers of the mothers remember, they still recognize the old provision in this new modern look. So we have to keep the good memories. Playful means in some little fun decays such as this little fun decays.

This is not functional, not really functional. We don't need this color. We don't need this little tube only.

We could have made a snap button or something here. But this is quite cool because this is a flashy color. This is easy to put.

This is giving some life to the product and we can find this little light here. So this is such a little detail that makes the parents happy. It seems to be small and not so interesting but this has a lot of power on the parents' line and then on the brain image.

This is really a Mexikozi signature, this little thing. Something funny about the Mexikozi that I don't know if it's the same outside of France but in France. People used to say a cozy.

A cozy means a group zero for many people. Group zero. They don't say a Mexikozi because Mexikozi was the first to do that kind of product.

In people's mind, the brand name became the name of the product. So they don't say a group zero. They say, oh, give me the cozy even if it's not a Mexikozi one.

No matter the brand. They say a cozy. A forced product.

Yes, we are. So it's very spawning in my mind. So this is our design philosophy.

So this document is intended only for just one thing. This document is for the purpose only of designers and stylists. That's probably why you never saw it until now.

So our product should give confidence to the user. So this is a trust. Our product should be clear and readable.

So this is the high trustable quality because we can read. We can see that it's trustable. This is also intuitive because product should be clear and readable.

Operation of our product should be intuitive for the user. Communication should be clear and simple. Evolution should be on.

Focus should be on. And care and friendliness. Of course not technical and not a lot of screws and the right and side.

Deepest. A lot of it. So now we have in this document we have mood boards, some pictures that can inspire the designer when they draw and when they create shapes.

All of these products are well balanced. Balance means two thirds of height here, one third here. The product seems to be stable.

You have calm shapes here with calm and relaxing lines here. The little lines with sheep with this here. We have of course comfort here in this one.

But this is not a fluffy comfort. This is a comfort with some little bit of tension inside the textile. And very clear and simple products.

Easy to understand. Easy to read. This is the best practice that we have in steel.

We have this transition between the hard part, soft part and very very soft part with the textile. This is also a way to express smooth transition. Smooth transition is not only an action, it's also visual.

This is something that we reuse here in this seat. This is hard part plastic. This is a premium kind of rubber.

And this is soft. And you can see the reaction of the child here. The titter, auto copy the paper.

I think the ZhongDan team has both some products to get the image 30-40 days. They have improved our IP. I'm happy to see the meaning we are needing the current table to be done one day.

This is also a good example. This is a very important... how this is for?

This is a pump. Mother's can warn the... A pump.

The menu or the electric electrical rest. That is the part. You need all.

I have a plan to do it. This is another product that has been made here in Sholek. The baby carrier here.

And this is always the same thing. We have this little color accent here. But very cow shape.

Very steel-shaped. Balanced. So nostalgic.

These are some qualities of nostalgic products. They are rich. But richness means some details are very well made.

I cannot zoom here that if we look at this shoe. Which seems to be very simple at first sight. If we look the way it is made.

This is very rich. Little details of stitching are very nicely made. We will have a talk about the pedal board.

They are not put on this. If we look at the product, the Rick Harkovsky. We find some issues.

Heritage means we have to redesign the past. We take into account the past and we make it a little bit more modern. This is a very...

In Europe this is a very known... Close for the children. The newborn.

But this one is a modern version. That's the very old one. And warmth is important.

Not only the physical warmth. Of course the child has to be protected in a card seat. But this is also a visual one.

If you use wool to make... This is a seat. If you use wool to make this.

When you look at it, you feel it will be warm and comfortable. This is also visual warmth. And the nostalgic best practices.

As I told you, this one is also coming from very old card seats. This is another chair that has been... Which is more modern with these little buttons.

Different area for newborn also. And playful. So playful means a little bit of fun.

Not laugh, but a little bit of fun. So this is some little things that can be an inspiration. So this stacking of different materials, layer, this gradient...

Is also what we call playful. This gradient, this is a futon. Japanese bed.

So it is made of different layers. As we are making this car seat made of different layers. Hard, mean soft and me soft.