And I think it's about practice, isn't it? I often say, because I said I think it was one of the first times I'd been on any chat show. I think with Jonathan Ross, I just started to get well known.

And I said, you know, with my exam results, I did one in physics, but I got a D in maths. And then everyone was surprised, you got a D in maths. And it's because I didn't practice hard enough.

And I said at the time, and I strongly believe it's true that very few people are naturally great at something. I'm certainly not. And I suspect most people you've had on this podcast, you know, the odd moats are messy or something like that.

But most people, I think, have maybe a bit of an aptitude for something, but it's mainly about practice. And I found that with maths, definitely. I found it with music.

And I found it with making TV programs as well. So do you remember when you first understood that? Probably when I got a D in maths, actually.

I mean, honestly, it was... Was it unexpected? Well, I mean, I had actually, I joined a band beforehand.

So I didn't think I was actually going to need it. It was A level. And I didn't think I was going to go that route.

I thought it was going to be a musician. So I'd sort of slightly lost interest. But I think it probably was.

I noticed that although I'd been OK at school, you know, I could do things and I could do physics. I think that was the first time where I realised that you actually have to put work in, in most, if not all, the things that you do in order to get to a really high standard or high enough standard. Now, I've heard you interviewed before, Brian, where you've said that that kind of message, I imagine, was being drummed into you by your parents and now you're the father of a 14-year-old son.

How do you get kids to understand that, that you've got to put the effort in to get good at it without having to go through that bitter experience of getting a D? I'm not sure if you can. I mean, my experience is that if you're lucky, your kids will find something they're like doing.

Naturally, my son is playing guitar. The moment he started playing guitar, he's been practicing over and over again. He picks it up and he practices and he's getting good at it.

And so that wasn't me. I think most parents will say, you can't force your children to be interested in something. It just doesn't work, right?

I don't, very rarely. But you can hopefully give them the encouragement when they find the thing that they're interested in. And I hope then that he's learning a more general lesson, which is actually the more you practice and the more work you put in, the more enjoyable it is, the more you enjoy it, the better you get at it, the more you enjoy it and there's a virtuous circle.

And that I really think that applies to virtually everything that we do in life. But I think you have to find it yourself.