Did they just close shop and go home? No.
I mean, particle physics is, because we're talking about quantum mechanics, basically, it's statistical in the sense that you collide.
What we do there is collide protons together at high energy.
And we collide a lot of protons together at high energy.
Protons have a charge so that you can put them in a magnetic field and accelerate them to very high speeds. Yeah, so they go around.
So the LHC in kilometers is 27 kilometers, and that's the number I was at. It's a conference.
Yes, it comes out to about 16 miles or something like that.
And the protons go around that ring 11 ,000 times a second.
Well, I suppose Ernest Rutherford initially,
so we go back to Manchester, the turn of the 20th century, and Rutherford was using radioactive decay to essentially produce the particles.
I mean, it's just the decay of atomic nuclei that naturally happens to produce high energy particles,
which he then fired into gold foil and bounced them off the foil.
In doing that, he discovered the atomic nucleus.
So one way to think about particle physics is that when you collide things together, what are you doing? You're really building a microscope.
One way to think of it is that the higher the energy of the collision, the faster these things are traveling, the smaller the objects you can see.
So we were talking about seeing for the first time in those experiments the atomic nucleus. You move forward to the,
well, ultimately through the 50s and 60s, and we have higher and higher energy collisions, you start seeing that the nucleus is made of protons and neutrons,
and then you start seeing in the 50s and 60s that the protons and neutrons are made of smaller things called quarks. And so we discover those.
We've not discovered anything smaller than that, by the way.
Is it because you don't have enough energy to bust up a quark? Yes.
Well, or to resolve what's inside it, let's say, to build a microscope.
Because right now, the inventory of fundamental particles includes quarks. Yeah.
So somebody's saying that's fundamental, which sounds a little like the Greeks saying atoms are fundamental. They won't be fundamental. You're absolutely right.
But they look point -like from the point of view, from the energies that we can generate today.
But that's one side of particle physics.
So we've been exploring the structure of matter, which is historically, you know, it goes back to Rutherford, I suppose.
And again, you have confidence that when you break matter apart, you didn't break the matter. You're just deconstructing it. Yeah.
Really, I think the way to think about it, I mean, you think about what a collision is.
So let's say you collide, as we did in my PhD, electrons and protons together.
So you get an electron beam and a proton beam, and you smash them into each other. What's actually happening?
What's actually happening is, one way that the collision can happen, is that the electron can emit a photon,
which is a particle of light.
And the particle of light goes, and it hits the photon.
Now, the wavelength of that light, which is telling you how small a thing you can see,
is proportional to the energy of the thing.
That's how hard we're smashing the things together.
So the faster you smash them together, yeah, so the faster you smash them together, the higher the energy, the smaller the wavelength. Smaller the wavelength.
So the smaller the things that you can see.
So that's a way of thinking about particle collisions.
So it really is a microscope in that sense. That analogy works.
I'm just thinking, if I were a proton, I wouldn't want to be busted apart into quarks.
That would not be a nice day for me.
In some ways, I suppose it's like having, it's kind of like having an x -ray, I suppose, isn't it? You're right, though.
You hit them hard enough, and they fall to bits, but that would be the same for you. Wouldn't it?
But we would try not to hit you that hard.
Yeah, except the bits that I fell into, no one's considered them fundamental bits of Neo. Right.
But the other way to think about particle physics, which is, I think, so you say the Higgs particle you mentioned.
So that's not in the proton.
You're not smashing the things together and finding a Higgs particle buried in there somewhere.
The other side is really, so you think of Einstein's famous equation, E equals mc squared.
So energy and mass are interchangeable, let's put it like that.
So it also says that if we have loads of energy in these collisions, then we can make new particles that are extremely massive, much more massive.
That would come spontaneously out of the available energy that would otherwise be doing nothing.
Yeah, so we have, when you collide protons together, these energies, you have plenty of energy there to make a Higgs particle, for example,
or a top quark, which is a very heavy particle as well, far more massive than the protons.
So that's, I suppose, the way to think about trying to manufacture Higgs particles so you can observe them.
You need enough energy to make them.
You need enough energy to make them happen.