I mean, this is the central question.
So Stephen's initial calculation, 1974, was
that this radiation, the Hawking radiation, is information -less. It's information -free. So it's not gone away.
It's not disappeared, the black hole.
It's turned into the radiation, right?
But his calculation said there's no information in that.
It's what's called thermal, purely thermal.
Not surprising, if you think about it, because it's been kind of shaken out of the vacuum of space.
So it's certainly, you would think, got nothing to do with the stuff that falls in.
This is something to do with the horizon.
It's not anything to do with the singularity, this stuff.
So out it comes, and the calculation is very clear.
So that would suggest, as you said, that the information, any record of anything that fell in, will have been erased.
The energy will be the same, right? The energy is conserved. The black hole hasn't vanished. It's turned into radiation.
But the radiation contains no trace of anything that fell in.
That is weird, as you said.
Because if you think, let's imagine, you might say, well, what's the difference?
What if I get this piece of paper and set fire to it?
It goes, and there's just stuff, ashes and radiation.
And yes, but in principle, then if you could just measure everything,
which you can't, but if you could, then you could reconstruct the information on the page.
And you can see why, because it's got something.
What's happening when you burn it is chemical reactions and there's oxidation, whatever it is.
But you can trace everything back.
So you can say all the atoms and things are still around. And there it is.
In a black hole, you can't. So it wasn't surprising.
What was surprising is that it appears there is a calculation that tells you that black holes erase everything.
And as you said, the laws of nature are quite clear on this.
Information does not get destroyed in the universe.
It gets scrambled so you can never reconstruct it, but it doesn't get destroyed.
So that's what bothered everybody for a very long time. What happened?
What's the end of the story?
I didn't mean to answer the question.
So at the end of the story, we're not at the end of the story yet, but in 2019, a series of papers were published.
One of the papers was by Jeff Pennington and the other one was by another group of authors.
But those papers suggest that Stephen missed a bit in his calculation, very subtle.
He could have never seen it.
I mean, that's why it took, you know, 50 years, right, to see what he'd missed.
But it turns out that the radiation is not information -free.
At the end of the process, then all the information about everything that fell in is imprinted in the radiation, as you would normally expect.
But you might, but then it becomes interesting because you say, well, okay, so there's a calculation and this mathematics that was done.
But you say, well, what's the picture then? What happened?
Because I understand if I, if I take this and throw it into the black hole, it's gone across the horizon. It's gone to the singularity.
It's definitely true that nothing comes out of the black hole.
Or, you know, so how is this information about this thing getting imprinted in the radiation?
And it turns out that it's not just, so initially quite a few people thought, well, it must be just right at the end,
when it's all quantum gravity and all this stuff.
So the thing's just about to disappear back into the universe.
And it's getting hotter and hotter, by the way, as it gets smaller and smaller.
So there's more and more, it's getting more and more violent and something weird happens and everything comes out.
But it was known for a long time, it was worked by a great physicist called Don Page, that the problem about this, about the information and the structure of space, these problems occur about halfway through the black hole's life.
So it's called the page time.
So the problems with the information structure of this thing occur way before you should be thinking about quantum gravity and a load of weird stuff.
So there was a big challenge to physics.
It's like, we should be able to calculate stuff when the black hole is halfway through its life.
There's nothing weird at the horizon, but yet something weird appears to be happening.
The picture of the thing is breaking down.
And so then we could skiff if you want.
So what is the picture of this?
And I should emphasize the health warning here.
This is ongoing research and there is no agreed upon picture.
And there's some other subtleties we'll talk about in a minute.
But a picture of what's happening is this is related to,
it's related to something called a holographic principle at some level, we think.
And so another discovery that was made in the seventies, which is quite interesting by quite,
I'm using it in the American sense. It's very interesting. Is that, so Jacob Bekenstein. Jacob Bekenstein. Jacob Bekenstein. Jacob Bekenstein. Jacob Bekenstein. Jacob Bekenstein. Jacob Bekenstein.