Well, I say that, and actually we talked about it on the radio show I just did last night,
so I think this idea that it is so unlikely.
First of all, it's unlikely that you exist, which is a big point and it's kind of obvious.
But secondly, it's quite unlikely that you exist in a time and in a place where you can actually, in his case,
spend the time learning how to play guitar, if that's what you want to do.
It's an astonishing piece of luck.
And so it would be ridiculous if you just didn't find anything,
didn't do anything, just coasted through life, not noticing that you're fortunate.
In a very profound sense, by the way, you're even fortunate to exist.
And also, I think in scientific terms, actually, it seems to me that we live in this baffling, astonishing and beautiful universe.
And it seems to me that not making any attempt to understand it in some way,
and it might be understanding it in different, it doesn't have to be doing mathematics and doing physics, but just notice something is worth pursuing and being interested in.
And I think that's the foundation, actually, and just notice that there's something worth being excited about, whatever it is.
I think that's why you do so much of what you do.
You know, many people would be successful and write a book and stop or do a bunch of TV shows and think, I've done enough of that. Yet, you don't stop.
And, you know, doing live experiences for people, I know, is something that you're really passionate about.
I wonder whether it's, that's, if we talk about, you know, we've mentioned passion, I wonder whether for you,
it really is just igniting fires inside people to go and explore. Yeah. And also me, actually.
So I like learning curves, which I haven't really talked about, actually. So I like,
like, I'm doing, sorry about live shows.
I've done these big live shows kind of on my own and with my friend Robin Inson, who's a comedian.
And, but now I'm doing some live shows with a symphony orchestra.
We did Sydney, Sydney Opera House in December.
And it came up, the opportunity.
And there's a great conductor, actually, Ben Northey, who's a conductor in Australia and New Zealand.
And he had said to me, there's this music, it's Strauss.
So everyone knows the start of 2001.
You know, that thing, the start.
Well, that's part of a 20 odd minute piece of music and no one ever listens to the rest of it.
But the music is based on a book by Nietzsche.
And Nietzsche's book is about, the way Ben said it to me is, is how can humanity justify our existence when faced with the power and infinite scale of nature? How can we justify it?
And so this piece of music is an exploration of that thought.
It was written just at the turn of the 20th century, 100 years ago or more.
But it's an exploration of that idea, but musically based on this philosophy by work by Nietzsche, a famous book.
And so I thought the challenge of taking that music and weaving in a narrative of cosmology and astronomy and what we know about the size and scale of the universe,
which Nietzsche and Strauss didn't know, that they wrote this. It's astonishing.
We're talking about, let's say, 1900, that sort of area just before,
that we didn't even know there were any galaxies beyond our own.
We didn't know that until the 1920s. It's unbelievable.
So the context has changed completely in what we know about the size and scale of the universe.
So there's something more to be said.
There's a dialogue between those ideas and that music and the things we know today and the latest images of the universe.
Something will come out of it.
There's something interesting that will happen. It's really exciting.