By the way, he didn't believe it when he saw it, because it wasn't in the air, this idea.
He was looking at light from supernova. Right, right.
I'm on a paper with Brian Schmidt. Yeah.
I'm like a very minor author.
You have to scroll down, and then my name is. In the supernova date, yeah.
But it was analysis of high redshift supernova. Yeah.
And I totally enjoyed that work, but he obviously went on and made an entire sort of branch of his career on it.
So there's this remarkable idea which comes from that, which is, in Einstein's theory,
this idea that you can have a kind of energy in the universe, let's say, or a thing, whatever it is, because we don't know what it is,
but something that makes the universe, the rate that space stretches, increase.
So that's there, and it's observed.
It's one of the great mysteries, because I think it's the smallest number in all of physics. It's by, what is it?
It's something like a 10 to the power minus 122, or something in appropriate units, right? Which is absolutely ridiculous.
So it's a tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny thing that's causing this rate of expansion. But it's not zero.
And so the question becomes, why is it tiny?
Why is it tiny and not zero?
Yeah, yeah, and so, because if it were even slightly bigger, we wouldn't be here.
So the universe would have been blown apart. So it seems very unusual.
But I saw the other week, the other day, actually, that there's some research that's linking that in the framework of a string theory,
or M theory, to dark matter.
So there's a kind of an idea that if you fix that, you get a prediction out that there should be dark matter.
But it turns out it's to do with extra dimensions and gravitons and extra dimensions and things.
So it's quite, but it's quite interesting.
So I think there are some very interesting areas of string theory, where progress is being made quite remarkably.
Do string theorists need a fuller or better inventory of particles?
So, for example, are we still looking for a graviton?
Are we still looking for, you know, every, you shake a stick, and there's a physicist proposing a hypothetical particle to explain dark matter, to explain whatever.
Yeah, wouldn't it be cool if the dark matter were related to gravitons, which is, this is not my field.
I only heard of it the other day. But it sounded interesting.
But it just shows you that we're, so to go back to LHC,
we have the Higgs particle, as you said.
We had expected, I would say, most particle physicists expected there would be other particles discovered. There's a particular theory. In that same experiment. Yeah, LHC.
So there's a particular theory, which motivated by string theory a long time ago, called supersymmetry,
which is a property of the universe.
It's been around for many decades.
Yeah, and it came initially from,
either from string theory or from some other, and got incorporated in.
I can't remember historically which way it came. But it's,
but it essentially predicts that there are double the number of particles that we see, fundamental particles of this energy.
So we, and they would have been great candidates for dark matter, by the way, which is an astrophysical discovery.
So we should say, I suppose the one, the one sentence description of dark matter is that we see the,
the universe, there's far much more matter in the universe than we can see.
So we're going to see the two things that we see.
So we're going to see the two things that we see.
So we're going to see the two things that we see.