If I've got one tip, and as you said, it's so boring to listen to people who've been lucky describe how that it wasn't lucky. It was all my doing. And you're absolutely right. For me, it's about opportunities.
If you're fortunate, and I suppose you could argue you can try and put yourself in the right position and things like that,
but broadly speaking, if you're lucky, then you'll get a few opportunities.
And then it's having that, I think,
knowing that you're not just going to sail through then.
You've actually got to do the work to try and seize that opportunity.
Sometimes it'll go wrong, and sometimes it won't.
But that's what I would say.
That's what I've learned, partly because I've had at least three different careers.
So I've been through it, really,
three times, thinking, I've been lucky, and I want to do this.
So what do I have to do now?
Could you explain your process then to people of how you go from that moment where you make a decision that you're going to change a career, maybe, to working out how you're going to not just be okay at it,
but be great at it, or be successful at it? What do you go through? Yeah.
I mean, with the caveat that you can never, I don't think you can plan to be great and successful, can you?
But you try and - No, you can plan to do your best.
Try and have a go, give it a go.
And a good example, I think, for me was with physics. So I'd been in music.
So I was 23 years old, I think, when I went back to university.
And of course, I was behind those people.
Most of the people in my year were 18, and they'd just come through A -levels.
And they'd done probably better than me in the exams initially, because they'd all got better grades.
But also, they were fresh, and they'd just come out of school.
And I'd had five years being in a rock band.
So I realised that I had to work really hard, particularly in maths, which I didn't have and don't have a natural aptitude for, if indeed anyone does, right?
So I think the key thing for me is I realised, and I still think it's very important, that I had to take responsibility for my own success or failure, right?
And it really matters in academia at every level. Ultimately,
you know, and I say this, I teach at the University of Manchester, and I say it to the first years, you actually know, you don't need to do an exam to know whether you understand something, actually.
You know in your, deep down, you know whether you understand something or not.
And if you don't, then go and understand it.
And we, the lecturers, everyone, the teachers, whoever it is, we're here to help.
But it probably, in my case, usually, if I don't get something, it comes from reading about three different textbooks and sitting there and thinking.
And sometimes it can take a couple of days, and sometimes it can take weeks, and sometimes it can take months.
Sometimes I never understand it, right? But it's going through that.
For me, it's really important to take responsibility for your own, in this case, understanding something,
being able to understand some bit of physics.
But it could be, you know, running fast.
It could be playing football well.
It could be playing the keyboards well.
Ultimately, I don't think anyone can teach you to be great.
Not just be great, but to be whatever level you want to be.
I think you can be helped by being taught.
But I really think you have to take responsibility for it.
Because just to say, people go at different rates.
I mean, I've, you know, I've worked with some brilliant physicists, so I've been really lucky to...
And quite often, you'll meet someone who's brilliant, who just doesn't get something, this concept. And you go, why not?
And it can take them weeks to get it that I could get in 10 seconds.
But then the flip side is also true.
I'll be going, I just don't get that.
And they'll be going, what do you mean you don't? It's obvious.