So one of the questions I get asked a lot is, how do we know how far away the stars are?
I got asked that in the school the other week.
How do we know how far away the stars are?
One of the most important measurements, it was a great astronomer called Henrietta Leavitt,
who was the first to work out that there are some stars, they call sea feed variable stars,
but it allows you to work out how bright they actually are by looking at them.
And she noticed that in the early part of the 20th century. That's the foundation.
That work was used to prove that the Andromeda galaxy, which is our nearest neighbouring galaxy, is far outside the Milky Way. But it was her work.
So there are actually quite a lot of famous women in the history of astronomy, but also science.
But as you said, it's usually Marie Curie. Yeah. But there's, I mean, now...
I felt embarrassed that I couldn't think of any more earlier.
I was like, I'm going to have to ask chat GPT, because I'd like, I need to know about more of them.
The men you can list off, but the women, they're maybe harder to find.
Maybe that's a slight block for young girls too.
They're not seeing it in history. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
But there are increasing numbers now. Yeah. Yeah. Role models. But you're right.
It's just, you know, the history of science.
I said that it really did start modern science in like 1600. Yeah.
So those names like Newton and Einstein and, you know, Galileo, they're men.
But of course, we're talking about society in 1600. Yeah. Yeah. When that...
So there's part of that, I think, just historically, until you get to the 20th century, it was extremely difficult to be a woman and go into science. Yeah. And it's changing.
But as you said, when you say, I was going to say not fast enough, the reason I would say that is because what we need in all sort of areas of human endeavor are people who are good at it and want to push the boundaries. You need talent.
And if you're only drawing talent from a small pool, in this case, you should say men, right?
You're missing half the potential to advance human knowledge. Yeah. So it's...
There's a practical point to be made as well.
You just want to find the best talent. Best people. Yeah, exactly.
To end things, where is your happy place?
Oh, yeah, that's the title of the podcast, isn't it? I forgot to ask. So bad.
I was too busy thinking about space and female scientists. I totally forgot. But I think it... I think it is. If you're allowed to...
Does it have to be a physical place? No, no, it can be...
Can it be a kind of a state of mind? Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
I think it is trying to understand something that I don't understand.
And at some point, figuring it out. I really love that process. Is the figuring out essential?
Does that lead to frustration if there's not a conclusion of sorts? I think...
I mean, I think that if you're trying to understand something that is understood,
but someone understands it, but it might be very difficult, then that process of trying to...
trying to find your own way of internalizing that idea so that it becomes natural to you and you really understand it is a really exhilarating thing to do.
And I always say to students, actually...
So I teach at the University of Manchester. I teach first years.
And I always say to them that these ideas... I talk about relativity, right?
Relativity is a bit confusing quite a lot.
But ultimately, it doesn't matter how long it takes you to get a particular thing into your mind, right? To understand it.
And it's different for everybody and it's different for each different idea.
Some ideas someone will get in 10 seconds and go, yeah, I understand that.
And sometimes it might take a month for someone else, but it doesn't matter. And there was...
I interviewed recently a great Nobel Prize winning mathematician, Roger Penrose,
Sir Roger Penrose, who got the Nobel Prize for...
In the 60s, he proved that black holes would form.
So this very famous paper in 1963, and he got the Nobel Prize in 2020.
And someone asked him, a young person from the audience said to him, how do you win a Nobel Prize?
And he said, I was really slow at school.
And actually, I was so slow that they thought I wasn't very good at maths.
And he's one of the greatest mathematicians of the 20th and 21st century. But he's slow.
So he understood that really, the thing that's really enjoyable is just taking your time and keeping going until you understand something. You know then.
You don't need to do an exam or have anyone test you.
You know when you understand something.
And the thing is not to be worried about the fact that it might take you ages.