Completely. I mean, because of this process, I would not be confident walking.
And I can't actually, same with TV shows, actually.
I'm really bad at doing a piece to camera in the cliched world on top of the mountain with a helicopter shot.
And I'm really bad at it if I'm trying to say something that someone else wrote for me. I really can't. It doesn't work. I can't remember it. I'm not an actor. I'm really bad. I don't know.
I just don't have that skill.
So I can't remember lines at all.
But also it plays into authenticity as well.
Well, it's partly just because I'm rubbish at remembering lines.
But what I can do is if I know what I want to say and I say it,
then I can say it with sufficient eloquence for it to be okay and work.
But, you know, broadcastable, as we always say, we always say, is that broadcastable? Yeah, it's all right. Right. Let's go to the pub. Broadcastable.
But so that's the way that I work.
I have to know what I'm going to say with a point I want to make. Yeah.
And then I can say it in my own way.
What I can't do is alone line. I just can't do it. Great question that.
Because the other thing which we haven't talked about in, let's say, creative industries, writing a book or piece of music, being in a band, writing a song, is actually finishing it.
And it's the same in science.
I often say to students who want to do a PhD, I think doing a PhD is wonderful.
You grow intellectually and as a person hugely because you have to produce a new piece of research,
but you've got to write a thesis.
And that's so you've got to stop and you've got to write this thing, which is new knowledge, a contribution to knowledge,
and you've got to know when to do it and you've got to finish it.
And that's the hardest bit of all.
And actually in the bands I've been in, the great songwriters, Peter Cunner from D -Ream, for example, the band I was in, he would say this, the craft, some of it's inspiration, right?
And so you have a little, you write a great thing, things can I get better, right?
You get this great thing in your head.
But turning that into a four minute pop song is the professional bit, it's the craft.
So you're right that you've got to, you've got to stop and produce something at some point.
And that, that's a judgment call.
I think I, you know, we'll all know in our lives, you know, that there are things where you just keep going, that little projects and you never quite do it. You never finish it. So I agree. That's a skill.
You've got to discipline that you've got to do it. What's your cutoff then? Like, what do you have?
It's usually that we've sold the tickets for this gig.
Right, okay, so it's happening tomorrow. Yeah.
You have obviously, you announced a date for a show.
You've got to deliver on that.
Is there any other methods that you use?
Yeah, I don't like the pressure.
I like a deadline, but I don't like the pressure of the deadline.
So I tend to try and overwork on it early.
And I always did this actually in doing exams at university as well.
I wasn't one of those persons who liked it.
I didn't like to cram it all in. I like to be relaxed.
So I, so, so I like the deadline, a deadline in three months time.
And then I will do most of the work in the first month.
Actually, that's the way that I work because, because then it gets better.
Then, then you get the great ideas when the pressure's off, when you've got the framework and you go, okay, right, I've got it. That'll work. That'll work. That'll work. That'll work.