So the first thing to say is that it's right at the heart of Einstein's theory is something called the equivalence principle, which was the idea that really led Einstein to the theory itself of gravity.
And so you don't feel it, Paul.
What you do is you just fall freely towards it.
So we're falling towards this thing there and we turn our rocket motors off and we can't tell. We can't look outside.
We can't look out the windows. We're just in free fall. We're just floating.
So it's like the astronauts on the International Space Station. We're just there.
So it's fundamental to Einstein's theory.
It's very important, actually, for the problems that follow that we're going to talk about, that you just freely fall towards this thing.
So we could be approaching this in this room now and we would have no clue that that's what's happening.
And in fact, so we're approaching the event horizon of a very big black hole like this.
For a black hole of this mass, then we wouldn't even notice something, according to Einstein's theory, as we fall across the horizon into the interior of the black hole.
So we could, we would, we'd fall across the horizon.
From our perspective in this room, according to Einstein, and we'll go for that caveat a bit later, but according to Einstein, into the interior of the black hole we go and we notice nothing.
What about when we're in the accretion desk?
Wouldn't we be banged around by a lot of stuff?
So we get, we might get in a bit of a mess as we fall through the accretion desk, but we're talking about the pure gravitational thing. You're absolutely right.
It's a bit nasty around these things.
So there's stuff, but that's nothing to do with the black hole itself, right?
It's nothing to do with the fundamental physics.
It's all the x -rays and all this nasty gamma, all this stuff that's been, it radiated from all this hot material around it. So yes, that would be a problem.
But if we had a, let's say that our room, this spacecraft is magically insulated from radiation and heat and all those things,
then nothing in, we would go into the interior.
The caveat, there's a lot of caveats, but one thing I should say is that it matters that that description I've given, it's for a supermassive black hole.
If this was a smaller black hole, so smaller, less massive, you know, a few times the mass of the sun,
then at some point you experience what's called tidal gravity, tidal forces.
So those are things that raise the tides on in the oceans of the earth.
The tidal forces, we will start to, in our freely falling trajectory towards the black hole, at some point you start to get, feel the tides,
you start to get stretched and squashed.
And there's a, you would start, you'll feel it eventually.
You'll really feel it eventually because formally, as you get very close to the singularity, you get infinitely stretched and squashed. So you really feel it.
I want to talk about that inside. Spaghetti -fication. Yes, that's my favorite one.
But so for, for, for, for a smaller black hole, as you approach the horizon, you feel those forces.
But for the big ones, you don't feel the tides until you've gone into the interior.
So we're moving toward the event horizon.
We're somehow insulated from the messiness of the accretion disk. We're moving toward it.
I've heard that there's a moment where the physics of this are such that if you and I are actually falling in, if we look to the left and the right,
we would actually see the back of our own heads.
Is that anywhere close to correct?
And can you tell me about the other little details as we approach the event horizon that you think are important? Well,
one of the biggest details, one, it's not even a detail.
It's one of the most shocking things about this is I've described this, that us falling in to the black hole.
And we're saying in this room where we can't see out, what, what do we, what do we feel? What can we measure?
And the answer is you can't measure anything and we don't feel anything until we get inside and we approach the singularity for this one.
But from the point of view of someone outside, the description is very different.
So what would they see happening to us as we fall towards this thing?
So even in Einstein's theory with nothing else, no quantum mechanics or anything, then what they would see is time tick more slowly for us.
So they would start to see as we approach the black hole, if they could see our watches, if we were transmitting to them or whatever it is,
transmitting from these cameras, we're sending it out to the, they would start, they would see our time tick more slowly, more slowly, more slowly.
And they would see our time stop on the horizon.
So they would never see us fall in.
So from the point of view of someone outside, nothing goes into the black hole ever.