If you travel close to the speed of light, then distances shrink from your perspective. And the one number I always have in my mind is at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN. The protons go around the ring, which is 27 km in circumference, and they go around at 99.

99999% speed of light. At that speed, distances shrink by a factor of 7000, and so that ring is something like 4 metres in diameter to the protons. So according to laws of physics, if you can build a spacecraft that goes very close to speed of light, you can shrink the distance to the Andromeda galaxy.

And so you could traverse across that distance in principle in a minute. However, the downside is that if you came back to the Earth at that speed to tell everybody what you'd found, at least four million years would have passed on the Earth. But getting to chat to everybody about what you found is forbidden.

What is quantum physics? Quantum physics is, so quantum mechanics is our best theory of how the world works. It describes everything that we've observed other than gravity.

Do mirrors run on quantum physics? Run? Yeah.

As in... Well, according to quantum physics mirrors shouldn't work, they're a miracle. That's not correct.

Quantum theory on X proves there's infinite multiverses like in Marvel films, doesn't it? That's one interpretation of the theory. How many infinite multiverses are there?

If there were an infinite number of multiverses, then the number of multiverses would be infinite. See, I think there's two. Ours and the one in mirrors.

Mirrors are windows into other universes, aren't they? No. My mate Paul says they run on quantum power, and that's why you can see into an alternative dimension in which everything's the same as our realm, but backwards.

What does Paul do? Well, he worked in a tennis ball factory where he had to catch the tennis balls, but he was fired from that and now he's unemployed. Sorry, am I wasting your time?

Yeah. Wondering where this clip came from? Read the caption, mate.

So am I right in thinking that this might prove the existence of chakras within the human body? No. You're not interested in chakras?

No, in the same way I'm not interested in ghosts. But Maya Carroll, she consents chakras in someone's body. And she doesn't need any machines.

This could explode at any minute, couldn't it? No. How fast did the protons in this thing go?

99. 99999% the speed of light. Your sense of smell is faster, isn't it?

No. Well, how come that when someone's frying bacon and you walk in the kitchen, you can smell it straight away before you've even seen it? Have you ever tried putting bacon in here?

No. Yeah, you should try it. You might make quantum bacon.

Would that make it more interesting? A little bit. For more of me walking somewhere in slow motion and then talking to someone, join me, fellow Mina Con Con BBC iPlayer on my other journeys of discovery.