It's one of the big questions in theoretical physics, whether those things, first of all, can exist. They can, given Einstein's theory, but there's a question about whether they would be stable. So there's a question about whether if you tried to send information through them, then they would collapse.

And it's a big debate at the moment actually. You use it as a time machine to go into the past. And I think most physicists think not.

They think that whilst they could exist, they would be unstable and collapse again. And so you'd never be able to send information through, let alone a person. Even one little light signal wouldn't get through it into the past.

But we need the more advanced theory, the quantum theory of gravity, to be sure. How the moon was made. It was made in an impact.

So very early on in the life of the solar system, so let's say four and a half billion years ago or so, we think that a planet about the size of Mars collided with the young Earth. It's sort of a glancing blow actually, which caused a lot of rubble to go out into space, formed momentarily a ring around the Earth, somewhat like the rings around Saturn. But then that ring very quickly coalesced into the moon.

So we think that the moon is made of mainly bits of the Earth and also bits of this other planet that glanced off it. Something like four and a half billion years ago. It's very, very early, very soon after the Earth formed.

As Jupiter is made of gas, could you fly a rocket straight through? No, you could fly a rocket through the upper bits of its atmosphere, where it's not quite as dense. But if you go down into the core of Jupiter, that the pressure becomes so high and the temperatures become very high.

We think there are all sorts of exotic materials. We don't really know what's at the centre of Jupiter. We have a spacecraft called Juno at the moment, which is orbiting around Jupiter, to answer that very question, trying to work out what is actually in the middle.

We think that exotic things called metallic liquid hydrogen and all sorts of really strange materials. But then if you tried to fly a rocket through the centre, it wouldn't get very far. It'd get squashed and crushed and melted.

And then it may well hit something very solid indeed in the core. And is there actually any proof for the multiverse theory? So first of all, there's no proof.

And secondly, there are lots of different versions. One of the ones that's interesting to physicists is something called the inflationary multiverse. So what is that?

Well, the idea is our best theory of, let's say, the way that the galaxies are distributed in the sky. So we can map that. So it's something we can observe.

We can look at where the galaxies are. Then we have a big map. It's called the Sloan Digital Sky Survey of where the galaxies are.

And when you look at them, then they're random in a sense, but there's also some pattern to it. And in particular, they tend to, roughly speaking, lie on circles in the sky. So they're not completely randomly distributed.

We can trace that all the way back to patterns that we see in the oldest light in the universe, which is the light that if we look as far as we can out into space, then we're looking back in time. You might be ready to participate in the record event. So go in the Stargazing World Record to go and look out at the night sky and get the most people ever looking out into the night sky at the same time.

You could also likely, I think, see the Andromeda Galaxy. I'm not quite sure about the time when it's going to be up, but look at the Andromeda Galaxy. You're seeing light coming from it, which has traveled for two million years.

So you're looking back in time, two million years, because you're seeing the Andromeda Galaxy as it was two million years ago. And many physicists think that that inflation doesn't all stop at once, but stops in little patches. And so you have a little patch of this rapidly expanding universe that slows down and makes a big bang, and that would be our universe.

And then the rest of it carries on, and a little patch slows down and stops, and you get another big bang, and that would be a different universe. Another bit stops and you get a big bang, and a different universe, and so on. So that's called the inflationary multiverse, which is what was in your question, a multiverse.

A load of bubble universes, if you like, so essentially an infinite number. And that could be our reality. It really could be that our entire universe, which is much bigger than the universe we can see with two trillion galaxies in it, is one bubble in a multiverse of bubble universes.