to say I've been lucky to meet a lot of astronauts, Apollo astronauts as well, who tended to be test pilots, you know, so they tended to be in those guys from the 60s and 70s and they tended to be guys that sounded Apollo P astronauts were really focused on flying those things as aircraft. But yet you're right, all of them, every single one that I've been looking up to meet said the same thing. The moment you're off the earth and look at it against the blackness of space, you start to get a feeling that there's something really important here way beyond everything else.

So I think that's powerful. That's why I did say once that I thought it was when it, I don't know which prime minister, I think it was Boris Johnson. I said, I said, I think it should be sent into space.

And I actually meant, I meant you should bring it back as well. But I think I would as a taxpayer, I would, I would pay, I gladly, a bit of my taxes went to as soon as you became prime minister, you went up on one of those, even the little suborbital hop, go up and have a look. And I think it would be a very good use of money.

And then come back. And it'd be, you know, you could get a ticket for, it could be a million dollars. It'd be a brilliant use of a million quid.

Fantastic. Because they come back with that in their mind. It's not going to, it's not going to fly.

That's not going to be a very popular suggestion that we pay a prime minister to go on a jolly into space. But I think they should. Aspective for the world leaders would do us no harm at all.

This is a quick fire. Sorry. It never works with me.

Right, Brian. What an amazing conversation. Thank you so much.

We finished with this, the three non-negotiable behaviors that you would like you and the people around you to buy into. So what Feynman said, doubt is not to be feared but welcomed. Humility in the, in your general life, but also in the face of nature, actually.

And be absolutely delighted when you find out that you're wrong. Those would be my three. Great.

What advice would you give to a teenage Brian? Just starting out? I don't wear that check suit when you're first on top of the pups.

Because it's a great suit. Come on. No, actually, maybe it was the 90s.

What did we just say? Don't be afraid for being wrong. You're wrong on that day, Brian.

Look how you've grown now. Yeah, it's actually tour merch. People are watching this on YouTube.

They can see the tour merch. I didn't do that deliberately. Actually, I just realised when you said it.

I believe he's done that. I've got so many of those free t-shirts. Actually, they're probably not free, are they?

Because I paid for them. Exactly. Someone's paid for them.

Can I ask about that? I know there's an element of humour there about not wearing the check suit. But how do you...

Are you trying to make it sensible now? You've got a bit. I'm trying to dodge you.

He's adding psychology to the check suit comment. But I'm interested in when you look back at previous iterations of you, whether it's been a musician or your early days on the television, how do you view it? Do you cringe?

Do you look at it for what you could learn? What you would do differently? No, I don't think anyone can be even remotely happy.

If you look at where you've got to and you say, well, that's okay, then I don't think... It's too complicated, isn't it? I don't think you can unpick things.

So I don't think in those terms. I don't think I wish I hadn't done that. I mean, obviously, there's always things.

And sometimes it can be serious things. And we say, I wish I hadn't. That was a mistake.

But you get to where you are and I think you have to accept the fact that your history is the history that... So you don't do regret or anything like that? No, I mean, but then again, you have to be careful with those things.

I mean, I'm lucky that I haven't done anything that I really, really, really had to regret.