So the composers that I chose, and they are in the tour that we're going to do this coming year, next April,
May, 2025, they're in there as music.
The composers were chosen because they explored this question and gave very eloquent answers.
So it adds to, I think, the more philosophical exploration of the questions that are raised by the signs.
What's the name of the tour? Well, Horizons. Horizons. That's easy enough. To remember. Okay. Very cool.
But there's a lot of black holes in it as well, I should say.
So it's an exploration of the ideas that I find interesting.
Black holes are a horizon of its own. They have horizons, yes.
But also life in the universe, the origin, evolution of life, speculations on, we could talk about it, speculations on how many civilizations there might be as a guess.
Well, this thing about life in the universe, you've done many, many TV series, and most recently one on the solar system, where the search for life is a main theme.
Well, yeah, we just saw, as we speak, last week, the Europa Clipper spacecraft was launched on the way to Europa.
We have an entire show devoted just to that.
We visited the Jet Propulsion Labs and felt the excitement of everyone there. It's great, isn't it?
It's the first spacecraft I've seen, major spacecraft being built. So I saw the Clipper.
And the thing is, the scale of that thing, it's the largest spacecraft, isn't it, that's ever been sent into the outer solar system? Well, if you add the...
Oh, the most massive, I think.
It may be, but there's another important fact.
Solar panels have gotten more efficient.
In the day, back if you were going to explore beyond the asteroid belt, you couldn't use solar panels if the intensity of the sun wasn't high enough.
This one has a very deployable, large solar panel.
That'll help it along without having to rely entirely on the nuclear decay of plutonium. Yeah. So it's a huge spacecraft. Yes.
And the point is that Europa, Jupiter's moon, is a prime candidate for a habitable world.
In what we know, almost certainly, I'm always...
The people who I know who work on the mission say, don't say we know.
We're almost sure there's a saltwater ocean below the surface.
I think it's pretty indisputable now.
So we're pretty sure it's there.
Yeah, but whatever is the skepticism, what would it be were it not a global ocean? Yeah, it's very difficult. And that's from many measurements. Was it made of ammonia? I mean, there's not... Yeah.
You know, water molecule is not rare. Yeah. So it looks like saltwater.
Yeah, and we have a lot of comparative planetology with...
Is it the Arctic, when it freezes over, you have these chunks of ice that will break and refreeze and readjust,
and you can compare the images, and you'd think you were looking at the frozen Arctic. Yeah, yeah. So it looks...
And there's more water in that ocean than all the oceans of the Earth combined, theologically active.
There are questions about how the ice cracks and moves on the surface. So it's a fascinating mission. So that's Europa.
Mars, of course, which you've probably spoken about many times on this podcast.
Enceladus is another one, Saturn's moon.
Even out to Pluto, I mean, even on Pluto...
And so it's the ones we see, the plumes of geysers, I guess. Yeah, yeah.
At the right sun angle, you can see... Who took those pictures? That must have been Cassini. Right, right, right. Yeah.
And also, there's some measurements from Cassini, the particles in those jets of water,
which are consistent with hydrothermal vent activity on the floors.
And hydrothermal vents are one of the plausible candidates for the origin of life on Earth. Yes.
So you seem to have everything.
The one thing I think Europa's got that arguably nowhere else has is it looks like that ocean has been there for many billions of years. That's the baseline scenario.
And we evolve life in less time than that here on Earth. Yeah, yeah. Out of our ocean.
I mean, it was present, what, 3 .8 billion years ago? 3 .8 -ish, yeah, yeah.
And the Earth's 4 .5 billion years old. Right.
Yeah, so it looks like you have a habitat that's been stable there.