about government in the UK and from what I know about government in the UK, the idea that they have been competent enough, for long enough, to manage such a secret and then begin to have this idea that they will release these things and give them what I know about my governments of the past in my lifetime. I just don't think the level of competence is there. Right, I mean there is actually and I'm kind of joking but there's some research.

You can find research papers which is research on populations of people and how long a group of people can keep a secret and not surprisingly the more people that know about it the less amount of time it's almost like a law of nature but the more people that know the less amount of time you can keep the secret. Finally we have undeniable evidence of alien life. Now we just need to keep it a secret.

I just think that we see, you know, a plan, a plot, some really very, you know, I don't know, competent organization that's there managing all these things and I just see no evidence of that. I see no evidence of that level of competence in government or elsewhere. I just don't see it.

So that's my view. When we think about aliens we often imagine creatures that look a lot like us, big heads, two eyes, walking upright, essentially variations of ourselves but life evolving under entirely different conditions might look completely unlike anything we've imagined. Alien beings could be so strange, so radically different from us that we might not even recognize them as alive if we encountered them.

I said that, I said it's suspicious to me that every time you see you know depictions of aliens they just look like humans in a kind of suit, you know, like with some little makeup on and things like that. And obviously if you go back to Star Trek in the 60s that's because it was really expensive to do anything that wasn't someone dressed up in a rubber suit and it is true that the aliens of popular culture that we see, you know, the UFO kind of people, they're all just like ET, they all look like ET, right? Stephen Spielberg's ET.

And so I did say I don't understand that, I don't see why it would be the case. Someone who's a biologist did I think reply somewhere on the web and say you can make some arguments that maybe this is a good fairly common solution to the problem of being able to, you know, have depth perception. So you know a couple of eyes, you know, you need to triangulate so and that's useful if you're predators or prey.

And had you run around on the surface and planet like this, maybe four legs or two legs is the, I mean there are things with more legs right on the planet but you know this symmetry, this is bilateral symmetry that we have, maybe that's quite common, maybe it's the way that you evolve with a mouth at one end and whatever and you can eat food and that. I guess I don't know enough, maybe you can make some arguments. My guess is unless someone can make a very strong argument to me otherwise that I don't see why things should all look like us.

I just don't see that. Perhaps the most fascinating thing about the search for alien life is what it reveals about us, that we're driven by an innate curiosity always reaching out into the universe hoping we're not alone. And maybe the answer isn't even as important as the question itself, the relentless human pursuit to explore, discover and understand our place among the stars.

If we find that life began separate origin to Earth on Mars or Europa or anywhere else, then I think you just assume then that life is common throughout the universe. If you have two separate genesis moments in a single solar system then I think you can just assume you can extrapolate then. So then the question becomes given some kind of simple life, single cells, replicators, given that how likely is it that you suddenly get something like us that has a conversation, which is kind of a big jump.

I mean you think about what we are. I think you just said that a physicist is a hydrogen atom's way of learning about hydrogen atoms. You start with the universe 13.

8 billion years ago with quite a lot of hydrogen, some helium, and a little bit of lithium and some other stuff. But not much, right? Basically hydrogen and helium.

And then 13. 8 billion years later you've got these things that have worked out that 13. 8 billion years ago the universe was made in the hydrogen and helium.

It's quite a big ask, it seems. So it may be a whole other question. Is it inevitable that given the origin of life and some time, let's say, well two billion years, three billion years, four billion years, if you can have a planet that supports an unbroken chain of life for four billion years, is there a really high probability that you'll get intelligence or is there a low probability you'll get intelligence?

We don't even know the answer to that.