You know, these questions we have about our place.
And as you said, it can be easy to be myopic, can't it?
You said if you look at our screens, it's Earth that we think about at most.
And most of us don't really think about Earth.
You think about your country or your city or your town. Or your neighborhood.
Yeah, even think about the Earth. But you're right.
If you know when you look at that arc of stars, and as you said, when you see it in a truly dark sky, it's powerful. It's incredible.
400 billion suns, give or take. 400 ,000 million suns. That's just words. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, it's insane.
Your brain doesn't even process that.
Like, I could repeat that if someone says, how many suns? Oh, 400 billion.
I don't know what that means. It's so abstract.
And most of them, I think the best guess would be all of them have planets. So, pretty much.
So, you're talking about trillions of planets.
Now we're getting into my subjects.
What is your take on all this UAP disclosure stuff?
Do you give it any in mind at all?
Are you busy with, like, real stuff? No.
I mean, the thing is, there's a thing called the Fermi paradox. Yes.
Which I think we talked about before on the show. Yes.
Which is, and the paradox is that if we haven't seen any, let's assume we haven't seen any evidence of anything. That's a paradox.
Because, as I said, there are, we now know.
We didn't when Fermi first posed it, by the way.
We now know there are so many planets out there.
So, let's say trillions of planets in the Milky Way.
Milky Way's been there for over 13 billion years.
Pretty much the age of the universe.
So, if there's no one else out there, then the question is why?
Because there's been so much time and so many places for civilizations to become space -faring civilizations. Right.
As Elon talks about, multi -planetary civilization, we're very close to becoming a multi -planetary civilization.
And once you have become a multi -planetary and multi -stellar civilization, if you become that, you're immortal, basically, essentially. Right.
So, the question is, the paradox is, why does it appear nobody has done that?
So, the first thing to say is, I would not be surprised, right, if a UFO landed here now, in the parking lot,
I'd actually, not only would I not be surprised, I'd be relieved, actually. I'd be like,
this is good, because it'd be a weight off my shoulders, because I'm worried that we're the only ones. That's a terrifying scenario.
And we're going to make a mess of it. Yeah.
And so, I'm worried that we could talk about that. But isn't it bizarre?