And so the picture of a black hole is kind of similar to that, in that we're developing this picture where the interior of the black hole,
when viewed from one perspective, is the exterior of the black hole when viewed from another perspective.
And so what you're getting there, we think, and this is, and again,
even as I say this, there are papers being written saying different things, it's really cutting edge stuff.
But I think what everybody agrees on, pretty much, is that you're seeing something called the holographic principle at work here.
So it's a dual description of nature.
So it's a very famous paper by Maldesina, it's called the ADS -CFT Conjecture,
and I think I'm right in saying it's the most cited paper in all of theoretical physics.
And it was a very particular model of quantum mechanics on a surface.
That's what CFT, conformal field theory, it means.
It's quantum mechanics on a surface.
And a precise proof that there's a dual description.
This quantum theory describes an interior geometry of space, which was not there in the surface theory.
And the space is called an ADS space, an anti -de -sitter space or whatever.
But it's a very, it's a perfect, a proof that there's a one -to -one description between these two things.
And I think it's fair to say that the black holes, the strange apparent paradoxes,
are telling us that such a thing, our universe can be described in such a way.
So there are different ways of describing the same physics, and they're radically different ways.
Ultimately, the thing is, it shouldn't be so problematic in that, in both descriptions, the information comes out.
But the way it came out is radically different, depending on your point of view.
And so I think most people would say we're seeing glimpses of some kind of holographic.
They're called holographic, by the way, because if you think of, what does it mean to have a complete description of a higher dimensional thing? So let's be very concrete. This room.
So let's say that this principle is correct.
And many people think it is, by the way, for this room.
So we have a surface surrounding the room, the walls, let's say.
And there's a theory that lives just there.
And it describes fully everything that's in the room. In that sense, we're holograms.
We are both holograms, because we're described by a theory that lives on a,
I mean, a hologram is a piece of film like that.
And it has a perfect, a perfect hologram would be a perfect 3D image would be encoded in the surface.
So it's a perfect 3D image encoded in this 2D surface.
That really is the picture that we're talking about here.
You can see it with the event horizon and all the information on the outside and there's the interior there and what happens.
So it looks like we're flipping between descriptions of the world.