As I said, I've been lucky to meet a lot of astronauts, Apollo astronauts as well, who tended to be test pilots.
You know, so they tended to be, and those guys from the 60s and 70s, and they tended to be guys at the time, the Apollo astronauts were really focused on flying those things, those aircraft.
But yet, you're right, all of them, every single one that I've been lucky enough to meet said the same thing.
The moment you're off the earth and look at it against the blackness of space, you start to get a feeling that there's something really important here, way beyond everything else. So I think that's powerful.
That's why I think, I did say once that I thought, it was when, I don't know which prime minister,
I think it was Boris Johnson.
I said, I think he should be sent into space.
And I actually meant, I meant he should bring him back as well.
But I think, I would, as a taxpayer, I would, I would pay,
I've gladly, a bit of my taxes went to, as soon as you became prime minister, you went up on one of those,
even the little suborbital hop, go up and have a look.
And I think it would be a very good use of money and then come back.
And it'd be, you know, you could get a ticket for, it could be a million dollars.
It'd be a brilliant use of a million quid.
It'd be fantastic because they'd come back with that in their mind.
It's not going to, it's not going to fly.
That's not going to be a very popular suggestion that we pay for prime ministers to go on a jolly into space. But I think they should.
Perspective for the world leaders would do us no harm at all.
This is a quickfire bit, isn't it? Sorry. It never works with me. I got it now. Right, Brian. What an amazing conversation. Thank you so much. We finished with this.
The three non -negotiable behaviours that you would like you and the people around you to buy into.
So, what Feynman said, doubt is not to be feared but welcomed.
Humility in your general life but also in the face of nature, actually.
And be absolutely delighted when you find out that you're wrong. Those would be my three. Great.
What advice would you give to a teenage Brian just starting out?
Don't wear that check suit when you're first on top of the pups. Because? It's a great suit. Come on.
I suppose it might have been. No, actually maybe one.
It was the 90s, wasn't it? Yeah. What did we just say?
Don't be afraid for being wrong.
You were wrong on that day, Brian. I was right.
Look how you've grown now with a beautiful blue t -shirt. Yeah, it's actually tour merch. There you go.
People are watching this on YouTube.
They can see the tour merch.
I didn't do that deliberately, actually.
I just realised when you said it. I believe he's done that.
I've got so many of those free t -shirts.
Actually, they're probably not free, are they? No. I pay for them. Exactly. Someone's paid for them. Well, can I ask about... I mean, that's...
I know there's an element of humour there about not wearing the check suit. But how do you view...
Oh, you're trying to make it sensible now, aren't you?
Oh, you've got a bit, yeah. I'm trying to dodge you.
He's adding psychology to the check suit comment here. No, but I'm interested in...
When you look back at previous iterations of you, whether it's being a musician or your early days on the television, how do you view it? Do you cringe?
Do you look at it for what you could learn, what you would do differently?
No, I don't think anyone can be even remotely happy.
Oh, you know, if you look at where you've got to and you say, well, that's okay, then I don't think... It's too complicated, isn't it?
I don't think you can unpick things. I don't... You know, I mean, I... Yeah. So I just...
I don't think in those terms. I don't think I...
I wish I hadn't done that.
I mean, obviously, there's always things.
And sometimes there can be serious things.
And we say, I wish you hadn't... That was a mistake.
But, you know, you get to where you are and I think you have to accept the fact that your history is the history that...
So you don't do regret or anything like that?
No, I mean, but then again, you know, you have to be careful with those things.
I mean, I'm lucky that I haven't done anything that I really, really, really had to regret.
I mean, I don't do regret.
I mean, I don't do regret.
I mean, I don't do regret.
I mean, I don't do regret.