Because with that, so it's quite a profound claim that there's a piece of a, if that's what it was, this Abby Loeb, he's a professor at Harvard, I think.
So it's quite a profound claim that this is a piece of a spacecraft or something from outside the solar system.
And the correct thing is to say, well, that's an interesting theory. Let's have a look. It might be.
So I would have no, no basis for saying, well, that's nonsense. Right.
It's a completely contentless statement, isn't it? I don't know. How will I know?
I haven't, I haven't, it might be. So that's it really.
So then when you talk about social media then, so you do go on there and you do elicit some strong reactions from people.
Well, I'm from old and I can't help it. That's the thing.
I don't know whether it's a, yeah, a character flaw or a positive part of my character, but there is an element of that, isn't it?
What is it that keeps you humble to be able to, to accept these diverse views?
But for me, I think it's, this might sound great, it's nature, right?
In the sense that we talked about the transferable skill of science.
And because I spent, you know, most of my time actually learning how to be a research scientist, you're just wrong all the time. It's practice, actually.
Feynman, again, I keep going back to Feynman. He was wonderful.
He's a great philosopher, although he hated philosophy.
Well, he acted as though he hated philosophy, right? But he said that.
He said scientists have a very great experience with being wrong.
And that's probably the transferable skill because it goes back to this thing.
You can't argue with a, let's say you're trying to understand how a star works and you go, I think it works like this.
And then you look at the star and the star doesn't work like that.
You can't start shouting at a star. Can you?
Because it's bigger than you and you're not going to win the argument.
You never win an argument with nature.
So what would you say has been the most, like the most powerful revelation about yourself that you've discovered was wrong?
Oh, in, in, in terms of science, it's almost, it's almost all the time when you're, when you're doing research, you have a feeling that you,
you understand some new data and you have a sense that there might be something there.
I mean, I did particle physics for a long time, which is working in places like CERN and Fermilab in Chicago.
And, and those places you get loads of data and you sit there on your computer looking at this new data, collisions of particles.
And one of the things, the golden scenario, the Nobel prize would be if you saw a new particle,
you've discovered a new one, you know, and no, no one ever did.
Oh, well, the Higgs particle is a good example of when we did very rarely, but at late at night, you, cause you've got loads of data,
it's like tossing a coin and it comes up heads 20 times and you go, there's something there.
There's something that, and you can convince yourself there's something that you keep going.
And, you know, I've not got a Nobel prize, right?
So every time I thought that it went away every time, but otherwise I would be a Nobel prize winning physically. You keep going back though.
Because, you know, you're trying to understand nature and you're trying, and very occasionally stand
up and something new will appear.
But at that process of, it goes back right to what we talked about at the start, that process of trying to understand something that's difficult to understand and forming views and models and opinions,
and then finding out that most of the time you're not right.
That, Oppenheimer and find that they were right when they said that skill you should transfer. That's hard as well.
So saying, don't only do it with little particle physics and little graphs on your computer screen, do it with your political views. Then it gets harder.
But if you, if you, if you understand what those great thinkers were actually telling you to do, it is that.
It's saying you, you, you, you understand now you've done some practice.
You're not right when you're trying to understand nature.
Now, imagine you're not right with your view about the, the top level of tax or whatever the, whatever it is, imagine you're not right about that as well.