Was this 18 year old Ghanaian student murdered while studying abroad in Europe just for being black? His family are convinced he was and are demanding answers. But police ruled it a suicide.

And months later still, no arrests have been made and hardly any international outlets are reporting on it. You see, Nana Ajay was studying electrical engineering at a university in Latvia. But before he could even finish the first year, he plunged to his death from a fifth floor window.

And here's where things get strange because Nana's family say that he was being racially bullied by his classmates for months. And just three days before he died, he was poisoned. He sent a voice note to his family saying that some of his classmates gave him something to drink and it was drugged.

And at the time, there was no public confirmation that this had actually happened. Until Nana's sister leaked a medical report with an official stamp and signature present. His hospital document explicitly states poisoning by an unspecified substance.

Confirming that Nana did receive medical care for poisoning. The documents say that he was stabilized and discharged the same day. But just days later on the 2nd of June at about 2.

50 in the morning, Nana was found dead outside his apartment building in Riga. Now, Latvian police said that he fell from a fifth floor window and the case was initially treated as an accident or suicide. But Nana's family claim that that explanation makes no sense.

They say that Nana was beaten and thrown from the building by the same people who had been harassing him. They also alleged that CCTV cameras in the building were switched off that day. And that his autopsy is not being shared with them.

Now, Latvian police have confirmed that investigation into the matter has been opened. And the family are desperately asking. They've had six months.

How many more months do they need? Ghana's Ministry of Foreign Affairs has finally formally stepped in saying that it is taking the family's claims of possible murder very seriously. And he will be engaging with Latvian authorities through diplomatic channels.

Visibility is the only pressure left. Then visibility is what this case needs. So make sure to share this video so Nana's family can finally get the answers they deserve.