I am here in Japan, where something pretty crazy is happening.
Thousands of people across the country are wandering out of their homes, never to be seen alive again.
And we're not talking about some one -off weird event.
Last year alone, 18 ,000 people in Japan wandered out of their homes,
and 500 of which were later found dead.
To make matters even crazier, police say that cases of this happening have doubled since 2012.
So what the hell is going on?
Well, Japan is officially the world's oldest society.
And because of that, their dementia crisis is staggering.
We're talking one in five people in 2025.
This is tragically resulting in elderly people wandering onto train tracks, getting hit by cars, falling into rivers,
and getting locked outside alone in the freezing cold.
But what surprised me so much about being here and speaking to people is that despite how dark this problem is, Japan are tackling this head on.
Certain regions are deploying GPS wearables from key rings and shoes with GPS insults, to QR codes that are stuck to their fingernails.
There are towns like Miwa which have installed a fake bus stop, preventing dementia patients from wandering off and getting lost.
With their shortage of care workers, a government -funded program is now developing AI care robots, which can carry out essential tasks like changing diapers, getting dressed, and helping movements.
Japan's thousands of convenience stores now act as safe havens, with many staff even trained by local authorities to recognize dementia symptoms and quickly contact police or family.
And then, my personal favorite, the restaurant of mistaken orders.
A place where customers are happy for their orders to sometimes be wrong because it allows all the servers who live with dementia to still be productive and not alone.
And instead of frustration, the vulnerability opens up space for connection, laughter, and kindness.
Japan can't stop dementia, but they are redefining what it means to live with it.
Japan can't stop dementia, but they are redefining what it means to live with it.
Japan can't stop dementia, but they are redefining what it means to live with it.
Japan can't stop dementia, but they are redefining what it means to live with it.
Japan can't stop dementia, but they are redefining what it means to live with it. Japan can't stop dementia.