There are so many allegations made against Trump and many others in these new Epstein files, so the best way to go through them is person by person, part one, Donald Trump.
Now, his name does come up a lot, to be more precise, over 1 ,000 times.
In fact, the guy who just produced Melania Trump's new documentary, Brett Ratner, he was actually seen in the files as well,
hugging a young girl next to Epstein.
Now, just so you know, most of the Trump mentions in these files, there's no allegations of wrongdoing, and they're more like things from news articles that Epstein was referencing in his emails to other people.
However, there is one document in particular that has raised a lot of concern online.
So, last year, the FBI compiled a list of allegations that were made against Trump that they received in 2020 from a tip line that they set up allowing anyone from the public to phone in and report a crime.
And here, we see a lot of disturbing allegations against Trump.
One of the complaints details a woman who says that she was R -word, I can't say it on here, by Trump when she was just 13 years old.
One of the complaints also alleged that Trump and Epstein held, quote, calendar girl parties at Mar -a -Lago, where Trump would auction off young girls and do horrific things to them.
A different complaint alleges that Trump's golf course in California was the center of a trafficking ring between 95 and 96,
and that some of the girls went missing and were allegedly buried at the facility.
The files also include an FBI interview with one of Epstein's victims who stated that Epstein's accomplice, Ghislaine Maxwell,
once presented her to Trump at a party, and that apparently Ghislaine making it very clear to Trump that this girl was available.
With Ghislaine allegedly telling the girl, oh, I think he likes you, aren't you lucky? This is great.
Now, there are a lot of tips that the FBI received, most of which are so graphic, I can't even repeat them on here.
But here's the thing, in the documents themselves, the FBI say that none of these allegations can be substantiated,
and that these claims had no supporting evidence to follow up on further.
But ultimately, it's up to you guys to look at the facts and make your own minds up.
But next, in part two, we're talking about Bill Gates.