There are so many allegations made against Trump and many others in these new Epstein files. So the best way to go through them is person by person, part one, Donald Trump. Now his name does come up a lot to be more precise over 1,000 times.

In fact, the guy who just produced Melania Trump's new documentary, Brett Ratner, he was actually seen in the files as well hugging a young girl next to Epstein. Now just so you know, most of the Trump mentions in these files, there's no allegations of wrongdoing. They're more like things from news articles that Epstein was referencing in his emails to other people.

However, there is one document in particular that has raised a lot of concern online. So last year, the FBI compiled a list of allegations that were made against Trump that they received in 2020 from a tip line that they set up allowing anyone from the public to phone in and report a crime. And here we see a lot of disturbing allegations against Trump.

What are the complaints details a woman who says that she was our word, I can't say it on here, by Trump when she was just 13 years old? One of the complaints also alleged that Trump and Epstein held quote calendar girl parties at Morrill logo where Trump would auction off young girls and do horrific things to them. A different complaint alleges that Trump's golf course in California was the center of a trafficking ring between 95 and 96 and that some of the girls went missing and were allegedly buried at the facility.

The files also include an FBI interview with one of Epstein's victims who stated that Epstein's accomplice, Galein Maxwell, once presented her to Trump at a party and that apparently Galein making it very clear to Trump that this girl was available. With Galein allegedly telling the girl, oh, I think he likes you, aren't you lucky, this is great. Now there are a lot of tips that the FBI received, most of which are so graphic, I can't even repeat them on here.

But here's the thing, in the documents themselves, the FBI say that none of these allegations can be substantiated and that these claims had no supporting evidence to follow up on further. But ultimately it's up to you guys to look at the facts and make your own minds up. But next in part two, we're talking about Bill Gates.