Within six months, she was defeating adults.
Sophia, the middle child, did even better.
By 14, she was a world champion, and a few years later, she became a grandmaster.
Judith, the youngest, was the best of all.
By age five, she could beat her father.
At 12, she was the youngest player ever listed among the top 100 chess players in the world.
At 15 years and four months old, she became the youngest grandmaster of all time.
Younger even than Bobby Fisher, the previous record holder.
For 27 years, she was the number one -ranked female chess player in the world.
The childhood of the Polgar sisters was atypical, to say the least.
And yet, if you ask them about it, they claim their lifestyle was attractive, even enjoyable.
In interviews, the sisters talk about their childhood as entertaining rather than grueling. They loved playing chess.
They couldn't get enough of it.
Once, Laszlo reportedly found Sophia playing chess in the bathroom in the middle of the night, encouraging
her to go back to sleep, he said, Sophia, leave the pieces alone.
To which she replied, Daddy, they won't leave me alone.
The Polgar sisters grew up in a culture that prioritized chess above all else, praised them for it, rewarded them for it.
In their world, an obsession with chess was normal.
And as we are about to see, whatever habits are normal in your culture are among the most attractive behaviors you will find.
The seductive pull of social norms. Humans are herd animals.
We want to fit in, to bond with others, and to earn the respect and approval of our peers.
Such inclinations are essential to our survival.
For most of our evolutionary history, our ancestors lived in tribes.
Becoming separated from the tribe, or worse, being cast out, was a death sentence.
The lone wolf dies, but the pack survives.
Meanwhile, those who collaborated and bonded with others enjoyed increased safety, mating opportunities, and access to resources.
As Charles Darwin noted, In the long history of humankind, those who learned to collaborate and improvise most effectively have prevailed.
As a result, one of the deepest human desires is to belong.
And this ancient preference exerts a powerful influence on our modern behavior.
We don't choose our earliest habits. We imitate them.
We follow the script handed down from our friends and family, our church or school, our local community, and society at large.
Each of these cultures and groups comes with its own set of expectations and standards.
When and whether to get married. How many children to have. Which holidays to celebrate.
How much money to spend on your child's birthday party.
In many ways, these social norms are the invisible rules that guide your behavior each day.
You are always keeping them in mind, even if they are not top of your mind.
Often, you follow the habits of your culture without thinking, without questioning, and sometimes without remembering.
As the French philosopher Michel de Montaigne wrote, the customs and practices of life and society sweep us along.
Most of the time, going along with the group does not feel like a burden. Everyone wants to belong.
If you grow up in a family that rewards you for your chess skills, then playing chess will seem like a very attractive thing to do.
If you work in a job where everyone wears expensive suits, then you'll be inclined to splurge on one as well.
If all of your friends are sharing an inside joke or using a new phrase, you'll want to do it too, so that they know that you get it.
Behaviors are attractive when they help us fit in.
In particular, we imitate the habits of three groups. One, the close. Two, the many. Three, the powerful.
Each group offers an opportunity to leverage the second law of behavior change and make our habits more attractive. One, imitating the close.
Proximity has a powerful effect on our behavior.
This is true of the physical environment, as we discussed in Chapter 6, but it is also true of the social environment.
We pick up habits from the people around us.
We copy the way our parents handle arguments, the way our peers flirt with one another, the way our co -workers get results.
When your friends smoke pot, you give it a try too.
When your wife has a habit of double -checking that the door is locked before going to bed, you pick it up as well.
I find that I often imitate the behavior of those around me without realizing it.
In conversation, I'll automatically assume the body posture of the other person.
In college, I began to talk like my roommates.
When traveling to other countries, I'll non -consciously imitate the local accent, despite reminding myself to stop.
As a general rule, the closer we are to someone, the more likely we are to imitate some of their habits.
One groundbreaking study tracked 12 ,000 people for 32 years and found that a person's chances of becoming obese increased by 57 % if he or she had a friend who became obese.
And it works the other way, too.
Another study found that if one person in a relationship lost weight, the other partner would also slim down about one -third of the time.
Our friends and family provide a sort of invisible peer pressure that pulls us in their direction.
Of course, peer pressure is only bad when you're surrounded by bad influences.
When astronaut Mike Massimino was a graduate student at MIT, he took a small robotics class.
Of the 10 people in the class, four became astronauts.
If your goal was to make it into space, then that room was about the best culture you could ask for.
Similarly, one study found that the higher your friend's IQ at age 11 or 12, the higher your IQ would be at age 15,
even after controlling for natural levels of intelligence.
We soak up the qualities and practices of those around us.
One of the most effective things you can do to build better habits is join a culture where your desired behavior is the normal behavior.
New habits seem achievable when you see others doing them every day.
If you are surrounded by fit people, you're more likely to consider working out to be a common habit.
If you're surrounded by jazz lovers, you're more likely to believe it's reasonable to play jazz every day.
Your culture sets your expectation for what is normal.
Surround yourself with people who have the habits you want to have yourself. You'll rise together.
To make your habits more attractive, you can take this strategy one step further.
Join a culture where, one, your desired behavior is the normal behavior, and two, you already have something in common with the group.
Steve Kam, an entrepreneur in New York City, runs a company called Nerd Fitness.
According to their motto, they help nerds, misfits, and mutants lose weight, get strong, and get healthy.
His clients include video game lovers, movie fanatics, and average Joes who want to get in shape.
Many people feel out of place the first time they go to the gym or try to change their diet.
But if you are already similar to the other members of the group in some way, say, your mutual love of Star Wars,
and the other members of the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group in the group group in the group group in the group group in the group group in the group in the group group in the group group in the group group in the group group in the group in the group group in the group in the group group in the group group in the group group in the group group in the group group in the group in the group group in the group group in the group group in the group in the group group in the group group in the group in the group group in the group group in the group group