At first glance, this sounds reasonable, but soon I realized that the trigger was unclear.
Would I do my push -ups before I ate lunch? After I ate lunch? Where would I do them?
After a few inconsistent days, I changed my habit stack to, when I close my laptop for lunch,
I will do 10 push -ups next to my desk. Ambiguity gone.
Habits like read more or eat better are worthy causes, but these goals do not provide instruction on how and when to act.
You need to be specific and clear.
After I close the door, after I brush my teeth, after I sit down at the table, the specificity is important.
The more tightly bound your new habit is to a specific cue, the better the odds are that you will notice when the time comes to act.
Remember, the first law of behavior change is to make it obvious.
Strategies like implementation intentions and habit stacking are among the most practical ways to create obvious cues for your habits and design a clear plan for when and where to take action.
Chapter Summary The first law of behavior change is make it obvious.
The two most common cues are time and location.
Creating an implementation intention is a strategy you can use to pair a new habit with a specific time and location.
The implementation intention formula is I will behavior at time in location.
Habit stacking is a strategy you can use to pair a new habit with a current habit.
The habit stacking formula is after current habit, I will new habit. Chapter six, motivation is overrated. Environment often matters more.
Anne Thorndyke, a primary care physician at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, had a crazy idea.
She believed she could improve the eating habits of thousands of hospital staff and visitors without changing their willpower or motivation in the slightest way.
In fact, she didn't plan on talking to them at all.
Thorndyke and her colleagues designed a six -month study to alter the choice architecture of the hospital cafeteria.
Originally, the refrigerators located next to the cash registers in the cafeteria were filled with only soda.
The researchers added water as an option to each one.
Additionally, they placed baskets of bottled water next to the food stations throughout the room.
Soda was still in the primary refrigerators, but now water was an option available at all drink locations.
Over the next three months, the number of soda sales at the hospital dropped by 11 .4 percent.
Meanwhile, sales of bottled water increased by 25 .8 percent.
They made similar adjustments and saw similar results with the food in the cafeteria.
Nobody had said a word to anyone eating there.
To see a graphical representation of the layouts in the cafeteria before and after the changes, visit atomichabits .com slash media.
People often choose products not because of what they are, but because of where they are.
If I walk into the kitchen and see a plate of cookies on the counter, I'll pick up half a dozen and start eating,
even if I hadn't been thinking about them beforehand and didn't necessarily feel hungry.
If the communal table at the office is always filled with donuts and bagels, it's going to be hard not to grab one every now and then.
Your habits change depending on the room you are in and the queues in front of you.
Environment is the invisible hand that shapes human behavior.
Despite our unique personalities, certain behaviors tend to arise again and again under certain environmental conditions.
In church, people tend to talk in whispers.
On a dark street, people act wary and guarded.
In this way, the most common form of change is not internal but external.
We are changed by the world around us. Every habit is context dependent.
In 1936, psychologist Kurt Lewin wrote a simple equation that makes a powerful statement.
Behavior is a function of the person in their environment, or B equals FPE.
It didn't take long for Lewin's equation to be tested in business.
In 1952, the economist Hawkins Stern described a phenomenon he called suggestion impulse buying,
which is triggered when a shopper sees a product for the first time and visualizes the need for it.
In other words, customers will occasionally buy products not because they want them, but because of how they are presented to them.
For example, items at eye level tend to be purchased more than those down near the floor.
For this reason, you'll find expensive brand names featured in easy -to -reach locations on store shelves because they drive the most profit, while cheaper alternatives are tucked away in harder -to -reach spots.
The same goes for end caps, which are the units at the end of aisles.
End caps are money -making machines for retailers because they are obvious locations that encounter a lot of foot traffic.
For example, 45 % of Coca -Cola sales come specifically from end -of -the -aisle racks.
The more obviously available a product or service is, the more likely you are to try it.
People drink by light because it is in every bar, and visit Starbucks because it is on every corner.
We like to think that we are in control.
If we choose water over soda, we assume it is because we wanted to do so.
The truth, however, is that many of the actions we take each day are shaped not by purposeful drive and choice,
but by the most obvious option.
Every living being has its own methods for sensing and understanding the world.
Eagles have remarkable long -distance vision.
Snakes can smell by tasting the air with their highly sensitive tongues.
Sharks can detect small amounts of electricity and vibrations in the water caused by nearby fish.
Even bacteria have chemoreceptors, tiny sensory cells that allow them to detect toxic chemicals in their environment.
In humans, perception is directed by the sensory nervous system.