We tend to imitate the habits of three social groups, the close, family and friends, the many, the tribe,
and the powerful, those with status and prestige.
One of the most effective things you can do to build better habits is to join a culture where, one, your desired behavior is the normal behavior,
and two, you already have something in common with the group.
The normal behavior of the tribe often overpowers the desired behavior of the individual.
Most days, we'd rather be wrong with the crowd than be right by ourselves.
If a behavior can get us approval, respect, and praise, we will find it attractive. Chapter 10.
How to Find and Fix the Causes of Your Bad Habits In late
2012, I was sitting in an old apartment just a few blocks from Istanbul's most famous street, Istiklal Kadessi.
I was in the middle of a four -day trip to Turkey, and my guide, Mike, was relaxing in a worn -out armchair a few feet away. Mike wasn't really a guide.
He was just a guy from Maine who had been living in Turkey for five years.
But he offered to show me around while I was visiting the country, and I took him up on it.
On this particular night, I had been invited to dinner with him and a handful of his Turkish friends.
There were seven of us, and I was the only one who hadn't, at some point, smoked at least one pack of cigarettes per day.
I asked one of the Turks how he got started. Friends, he said.
It always starts with your friends.
One friend smokes, and then you try it.
What was truly fascinating was that half of the people in the room had managed to quit smoking.
Mike had been smoke -free for a few years at that point, and he swore up and down that he broke the habit because of a book called Alan Carr's Easy Way to Stop Smoking.
It frees you from the mental burden of smoking, he said.
It tells you, stop lying to yourself.
You know you don't actually want to smoke.
You know you don't really enjoy this.
It helps you feel like you're not the victim anymore.
You start to realize that you don't need to smoke.
Now, I had never tried a cigarette, but I took a look at the book afterward out of curiosity.
The author employs an interesting strategy to help smokers eliminate their cravings.
He systematically reframes each cue associated with smoking and gives it a new meaning. He says things like,
You think you're quitting smoking, but you're not quitting anything because cigarettes do nothing for you.
Or, You think smoking is something you need to do to be social, but it's not.
You can be social without smoking at all.
You think smoking is about relieving stress, but it's not.
Smoking does not relieve your nerves. It destroys them.
Over and over, he repeats these phrases and others like them.
Get it clearly into your mind, he says.
You are losing nothing, and you are making marvelous positive gains not only in health, energy, and money, but also in confidence, self -respect, freedom,
and most important of all, in the length and quality of your future life.
By the time you get to the end of the book, smoking seems like the most ridiculous thing in the world to do.
And if you no longer expect smoking to bring you any benefits, you have no reason to smoke.
It is an inversion of the second law of behavior change. Make it unattractive.
Now, I know this idea might sound overly simplistic.
Just change your mind and you can quit smoking, but stick with me for a minute. Where cravings come from
Every behavior has a surface -level craving and a deeper, underlying motive.
I often have a craving that goes something like this. I want to eat tacos.
If you were to ask me why I want to eat tacos, I wouldn't say, because I need food to survive.
But the truth is, somewhere, deep down, I am motivated to eat tacos because I have to eat to survive.
The underlying motive is to obtain food and water, even if my specific craving is for a taco.
Some of our underlying motives include conserve energy, obtain food and water, find love and reproduce, connect and bond with others, win social acceptance and approval, reduce uncertainty, achieve status and prestige.
This is just a partial list.
I offer a more complete list and more examples of how to apply them to business at atomichabits .com slash business.
In any case, a craving is just a specific manifestation of a deeper, underlying motive.
Your brain did not evolve with a desire to smoke cigarettes or to check Instagram or to play video games.
At a deep level, you simply want to reduce uncertainty or relieve anxiety, to win social acceptance and approval, or to achieve status.
Look at nearly any product that is habit -forming, and you'll see that it does not create a new motivation,
but rather latches onto the underlying motives of human nature.
Find love and reproduce might mean using Tinder.
Connect and bond with others might mean browsing Facebook.
Winning social acceptance and approval could be posting on Instagram.
Reducing uncertainty might drive you to search on Google.
Achieving status and prestige could mean playing video games.
Your habits are modern -day solutions to ancient desires, new versions of old vices.
The underlying motives behind human behavior remain the same.
The specific habits we perform differ based on the period of history we live in. Here's the powerful part.
There are many different ways to address the same underlying motive.
One person might learn to reduce stress by smoking a cigarette.
Another person learns to ease their anxiety by going for a run.
Your current habits are not necessarily the best way to solve the problems you face.
They are just the methods you learn to use.
Once you associate a solution with the problem you need to solve, you keep coming back to it. Habits are all about associations.
These associations determine whether we predict a habit to be worth repeating or not.
As we covered in our discussion of the first law, your brain is continually absorbing information and noticing cues in the environment.
Every time you perceive a cue, your brain automatically runs a simulation and makes a prediction about what to do in the next moment. For example,
cue, you notice that the stove is hot.
Prediction, if I touch it, I'll get burned, so I should avoid touching it. Or, cue,
you see that the traffic light turned green.
Prediction, if I step on the gas, I'll make it safely through the intersection and get closer to my destination,
so I should step on the gas.
You see a cue, categorize it based on past experience, and determine the appropriate response.
This entire process happens in an instant, but it plays a crucial role in your habits because every action is preceded by a prediction.
Life feels reactive, but it's actually predictive.
All day long, you're making your best guess of how to act, given what you've just seen and what has worked for you in the past.
You are endlessly predicting what will happen in the next moment.
Our behavior is heavily dependent on these predictions. We'll be right back.