 Here's a sample of where you might start. Wake up, turn off the alarm, check my phone, go to the bathroom, weigh myself, take a shower, and so on. Once you have a full list, look at each behavior and ask yourself, is this a good habit, a bad habit, or neutral habit? If it's a good habit, write a plus sign next to it. If it is a bad habit, write a minus sign next to it. And if it's neutral, write an equal sign. For example, the list I just mentioned might look like this. Wake up, neutral habit, turn off alarm, neutral, check my phone. Probably shouldn't do that before I get out of bed. That's negative. Go to the bathroom, neutral, weigh myself, positive, take a shower, positive, and so on. The marks you give to a particular habit will depend on your situation and your goals. For someone who is trying to lose weight, eating a bagel with peanut butter every morning might be a bad habit. For someone who's trying to bulk up and add muscle, the same behavior might be a good habit. It all depends on what you're working toward. If you're interested, you can get a template to create your own habit scorecard at atomicabits.com slash scorecard. It's worth noting that scoring your habits can be a little more complex for another reason. The labels Good Habit and Bad Habit are slightly inaccurate. There aren't really any good habits or bad habits. They're only effective habits that is effective at solving problems. All habits serve you in some way, even the bad ones, which is why you repeat them. For this exercise, categorize your habits based on how they will benefit you or hurt you in the long run. Generally speaking, Good Habits will have net positive outcomes. Bad habits will have net negative outcomes. Smoking a cigarette may reduce stress right now, that's out serving you, but it's not a healthy long-term behavior. If you're still having trouble determining how to rate a particular habit on your habit scorecard, here's a question I like to use. “Does this behavior help me become the type of person I wish to be? Does this habit cast a vote for or against my desired identity?”? Habits that reinforce your desired identity are usually good. Habits that conflict with your desired identity are usually bad. As you create your Habits Scorecard, there is no need to change anything at first. The goal is simply to know what is actually going on. Leave your thoughts and actions without judgment or internal criticism. Don't blame yourself for your faults. Don't praise yourself for your successes. If you eat a chocolate bar every morning, acknowledge it, almost as if you were watching someone else. Oh, how interesting that they would do such a thing. If you binge eat, simply notice that you are eating more calories than you should. If you waste your time online, notice that you are spending your life in a way that you do not want to. The first step to changing bad habits is to be on the lookout for them. As you feel like you need extra help, then you can try pointing and calling in your own life. Say out loud the action that you are thinking of taking and what the outcome will be. If you want to cut back on your junk food habit, but you notice yourself grabbing another cookie, say out loud, I'm about to eat this cookie, but I don't need it. Eating it will cause me to gain weight and hurt my health.”. Hearing your bad habits spoken aloud makes the consequences seem more real. It adds weight to the action rather than letting yourself mindlessly slip into an old routine. This approach is useful, even if you are simply trying to remember a task on your to-do list. Just saying out loud, “Tomorrow I need to go to the post office after lunch,”, increases the odds that you will actually do it. You are getting yourself to acknowledge the need for action, and that can make all the difference. The process of behavior change always starts with awareness. Strategies like pointing and calling and the habit scorecard are focused on getting you to recognize your habits and acknowledge the cues that trigger them, which makes it possible to respond in a way that benefits you. Chapter Summary With enough practice, your brain will pick up on the cues that predict certain outcomes without consciously thinking about it. Once our habits become automatic, we stop paying attention to what we are doing. The process of behavior change always starts with awareness. You need to be aware of your habits before you can change them. Pointing and calling raises your level of awareness from a non-conscious habit to a more conscious level by verbalizing your actions. The Habits Scorecard is a simple exercise you can use to become more aware of your behavior. Chapter 5 The Best way to Start a new Habit In 2001, researchers in Great Britain began working with 248 people to build better exercise habits over the course of two weeks. The subjects were divided into three groups. The first group was the control group. They were simply asked to track how often they exercised. The second group was the “motivation” group. They were asked not only to track their workouts, but also to read some material on the benefits of exercise. The researchers also explained to the group how exercise could reduce the risk of coronary heart disease and improve heart health. Finally, there was the third group. These subjects received the same presentation as the second group, which ensured that they had equal levels of motivation. However, they were also asked to formulate a plan for when and where they would exercise over the following week. Specifically, each member of the third group completed the following sentence. “During the next week, I will partake in at least 20 minutes of vigorous exercise on this day, at this time, in this place. In the first and second groups, 35 to 38% of people exercised at least once per week. Interestingly, the motivational presentation given to the second group seemed to have no meaningful impact on the behavior of participants as soon as they left the researchers. But 91% of the third group exercised at least once per week, more than double the normal rate. The sentence that they had filled out is what researchers refer to as an implementation intention, which is a plan you make beforehand about when and where to act. That is, how you intend to implement a particular habit.