 The fundamentals why tiny changes make a big difference Chapter one the surprising power of atomic habits The fate of British cycling changed one day in 2003 The organization which was the governing body for professional cycling and Great Britain had recently hired Dave Brailsford as its performance director at the time professional cyclists in Great Britain had endured nearly 100 years of mediocrity Since 1908 British riders had won just a single gold medal at the Olympic Games And they had fared even worse in cycling's biggest race the tour to France in 110 years no British cyclist had ever won the event In fact, the performance of British riders had been so underwhelming that one of the top bike manufacturers in Europe Refused to sell bikes to the team because they were afraid that it would hurt sales of other professionals saw the brits using their gear Brailsford had been hired to put British cycling on a new trajectory Would made him different from previous coaches was his relentless commitment to a strategy that he referred to as the aggregation of marginal gains Which was the philosophy of searching for a tiny margin of improvement in everything you do Brailsford said The whole principle came from the idea that if you broke down everything you could think of that goes into riding a bike and then improve it by 1% You will get a significant increase when you put them all together Brailsford and his coaches began by making small adjustments you might expect from a professional cycling team They redesigned the bike seats to make them more comfortable and rubbed alcohol on the tires for a better grip They asked riders to wear electrically heated over shorts to maintain ideal muscle temperature while riding and used biofeedback sensors to monitor how each athlete responded to a particular workout The team tested various fabrics in a wind tunnel and had their outdoor riders switched indoor racing suits which proved to be lighter and more aerodynamic But they didn't stop there Brailsford and his team continued to find 1% improvements and overlooked and unexpected areas They tested different types of massage gels to see which one led to the fastest muscle recovery They hired a surgeon to teach each rider the best way to wash their hands to reduce the chances of catching a cold They determined the type of pillow and mattress that led to the best night sleep for each rider They even painted the inside of the team truck white which helped them spot little bits of dust that would normally slip by unnoticed But could degrade the performance of the finely tuned bikes As these and hundreds of other small improvements accumulated the results came faster than anyone could have imagined Just five years after Brailsford took over the British cycling team dominated the road and track cycling events at the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing where they won an astounding 60% of the gold medals available Four years later when the Olympic Games came to London the Brits raised the bar as they set nine Olympic records and seven world records That same year Bradley Wiggins became the first British cyclist to win the Tour de France The next year his teammate Chris Froome won the race and he would go on to win again in 2015 2016 and 2017 giving the British team five Tour de France victories in six years During the 10-year span from 2007 to 2017 British cyclist won 178 world championships and 66 Olympic or Paralympic gold medals and captured five Tour de France victories and would as widely regarded as the most successful run in cycling history How does this happen? How does a team of previously ordinary athletes transform into world champions with tiny changes that at first glance would seem to make a modest difference at best? Why does small improvements accumulate into such remarkable results and how can you replicate this approach in your own life? Why small habits make a big difference? It is so easy to overestimate the importance of one defining moment and underestimate the value of making small improvements on a daily basis Too often we convince ourselves that massive success requires massive action Whether it is losing weight building a business riding a book winning a championship or achieving any other goal We put pressure on ourselves to make some earth shattering improvement that everyone will talk about Meanwhile improving by 1% isn't particularly notable Sometimes it isn't even noticeable, but it can be far more meaningful, especially in the long run The difference a tiny improvement can make over time is astounding Here's how the math works out If you can get 1% better each day for one year you'll end up 37 times better by the time you're done Conversely, if you get 1% worse each day for one year you'll decline nearly down to zero What starts as a small win or a minor setback accumulates into something much more Habits are the compound interest of self-improvement The same way that money multiplies through compound interest the effects of your habits multiply as you repeat them They seem to make little difference on any given day and yet the impact they deliver over the months and years can be enormous It is only when looking back two five or perhaps ten years later that the value of good habits and the cost of bad ones Strikingly apparent This can be a difficult concept to appreciate in daily life We often dismiss small changes because they don't seem to matter very much in the moment If you save a little money now, you're still not a millionaire If you go to the gym three days in a row, you're still out of shape If you study Mandarin for an hour tonight, you still haven't learned the language We make a few changes, but the results never seem to come quickly and so we slide back into our previous routines Unfortunately, the slow pace of transformation also makes it easy to let a bad habit slide If you eat non-healthy meal today, the scale doesn't move much If you work late and ignore your family, they will forgive you If you procrastinate and put your project off until tomorrow, there will usually be time to finish it later A single decision is easy to dismiss But when we repeat one per cent errors day after day by replicating poor decisions duplicating tiny mistakes and rationalizing little excuses Our small choices compound into toxic results It's the accumulation of many missteps, a 1% decline here and there that eventually leads to a problem The impact created by changing your habits is similar to the effect of shifting the root of an airplane by just a few degrees Imagine you are flying from Los Angeles to New York City If a pilot, leaving from LAX, adjust the heading just three and a half degrees south You will land in Washington DC instead of New York Such a small change is barely noticeable at takeoff, the nose of the airplane moves just a few feet But when magnified across the entire United States, you end up hundreds of miles apart Similarly, a slight change in your daily habits can guide your life to a very different destination Making a choice that is 1% better or 1% worse seems insignificant in the moment But over the span of moments that make up a lifetime, these choices determine the difference between who you are and who you could be. Success is the product of daily habits, not once in a lifetime transformations That said,, it doesn't matter how successful or unsuccessful you are right now. What matters is whether your habits are putting you on the path toward success. You should be far more concerned with your current trajectory than with your current results. If you're a millionaire, but you spend more than you earn each month,, then you're on a bad trajectory. If your spending habits don't change, it's not going to end well. Conversely,, if you're broke, but you save a little bit every month,, then you're on the path toward financial freedom Even if you're moving slower than you'd like Your outcomes are a lagging measure of your habits. Your net worth is a lagging measure of your financial habits. Your weight is a lagging measure of your eating habits. Your knowledge is a lagging measure of your learning habits. Your clutter is a lagging measure of your cleaning habits. You get what you repeat. If you want to predict where you'll end up in life,, all you have to do is follow the curve of tiny gains or tiny losses, and see how your daily choices will compound 10 or 20 years down the line. Are you spending less than you earn each month?? Are you making it into the gym each week?? Are you reading books and learning something new each day?? Tiny battles like these are the ones that will define your future self. Time magnifies the margin between success and failure. It will multiply whatever you feed it. Good habits make time your ally. bad habits make time your enemy Your habits can compound for you or against you Here are some examples of positive compounding Productivity compounds. Accomplishing one extra task is a small feed on any given day, but accounts for a lot over an entire career. The effect of automating an old task or mastering a new skill can be even greater. The more tasks you can handle without thinking,, the more your brain is free to focus on other areas. Knowledge compounds. Learning one new idea won't make you a genius, but a commitment to lifelong learning can be transformative. Furthermore,, each book you read not only teaches you something new but also opens up different ways of thinking about old ideas. As Warren Buffett says that's how knowledge works. It builds up, like compound interest.” Relationships compound. People reflect your behavior back to you. The more you help others, the more others want to help you. Being a little bit nicer in each interaction can result in a network of broad and strong connections over time And here are some examples of negative compounding Stress compounds. The frustration of a traffic jam. The weight of parenting responsibilities. The worry of making ends meet. The strain of slightly high blood pressure. By themselves, these common causes of stress are manageable. But when they persist for years,, little stresses compound into serious health issues. Negative thoughts compound. The more you think of yourself as worthless or stupid or ugly The more you condition yourself to interpret life that way. You get trapped in a thought loop. The same is true for how you think about others. Once you fall into the habit of seeing people as angry,, unjust, or selfish, You see those kind of people everywhere. Outrage compounds. Riots,, protests, and mass movements are rarely the result of a single event. Instead, a long series of microaggressions and daily aggravations slowly multiply until one event tips the scales and outrage spreads like wildfire