 Then, he wrote a computer program that would allow Netflix to run only if he was cycling at a certain speed. If he slowed down for too long, whatever show he was watching would pause until he started pedaling again. He was, in the words of one fan, eliminating obesity one Netflix binge at a time. He was also employing temptation bundling to make his exercise habit more attractive. Temptation bundling works by linking an action you want to do with an action you need to do. In Burns case, he bundled watching Netflix, the thing he wanted to do, with riding a stationary bike, the thing he needed to do. Businesses are masters at temptation bundling. For instance, when the American Broadcasting Company, more commonly known as ABC, launched its Thursday night television lineup for the 2014-2015 season. They promoted temptation bundling on a massive scale, even though they wouldn't have used that term to describe it. Every Thursday, the company would air three shows created by screenwriter Shonda Rhymes, Ray's Anatomy, Scandal, and How to Get Away with Murder. They branded it as TGIT on ABC, which stands for Thank God It's Thursday. In addition to promoting the shows, ABC encouraged viewers to make popcorn, drink red wine, and enjoy the evening. Andrew Kubitz, head of scheduling for ABC, described the idea behind the campaign. We see Thursday night as a viewership opportunity, with either couples or women by themselves who want to sit down and escape and have fun and drink their red wine and have some popcorn. The brilliance of this strategy is that ABC was associating the thing they needed viewers to do, watch their shows, with activities their viewers already wanted to do, relax, drink wine, and eat popcorn. Over time, people began to connect watching ABC, with feeling relaxed and entertained. If you drink red wine and eat popcorn at 8 p.m. every Thursday, then eventually 8 p.m. on Thursday means relaxation and entertainment. The reward gets associated with the queue, and the habit of turning on the television becomes more attractive. You're more likely to find a behavior attractive if you get to do one of your favorite things at the same time. Perhaps you want to hear about the latest celebrity gossip, but you need to get in shape. Using temptation bundling, you could only retabloids and watch reality shows when you're at the gym. Or maybe you want to get a pedicure, but you need to clean out your email inbox. Evolution, only get a pedicure, while processing overdue work emails. Temptation bundling is one way to apply a psychology theory known as pre-max principle. Named after the work of Professor David Pre-Mack, the principle states that more probable behaviors will reinforce less probable behaviors. In other words, even if you don't really want to process overdue work emails, you'll become conditioned to do it if it means you get to do something you really want to do along the way. You can even combine temptation bundling with the habit stacking strategy we discussed in chapter 5 to create a set of rules that guide your behavior. For example, the habit stacking plus temptation bundling formula is something like this. One, after current habit, I will have it I need. Two, after habit I need, I will have it I want. So if you want to read the news, but you need to express more gratitude, then one, after my morning coffee, I will say one thing I'm grateful for that happened yesterday, that's the need. Two, after I say one thing I'm grateful for, I will read the news, that's the one. Or if you want to watch sports, but you need to make sales calls, one, after I get back from my lunch break, I will call three potential clients. Two, after I call three potential clients, I will check ESPN. And finally, if you want to check Facebook, but you need to exercise more, one, after I pull out my phone, I will do 10 burpees. Two, after I do 10 burpees, I will check Facebook. The hope is that eventually you'll look forward to calling three clients or doing 10 burpees because it means you get to read the latest sports news or check Facebook. Doing the thing you need to do means you get to do the thing you want to do. We began this chapter by discussing super normal stimuli, which are heightened versions of reality that increase our desire to take action. Making bundling is one way to create a heightened version of any habit by connecting it with something you already want. Engineering a truly irresistible habit is a hard task, but this simple strategy can be employed to make nearly any habit more attractive than it would be otherwise. Chapter Summary The second law of behavior change is, make it attractive. The more attractive an opportunity is, the more likely it is to become habit forming. Attacks are dopamine driven feedback loop. When dopamine rises, so does our motivation to act. It is the anticipation of a reward, not the fulfillment of it, that gets us to take action. The greater the anticipation, the greater the dopamine spike. Temptation bundling is one way to make your habits more attractive. The strategy is to pair an action you want to do with an action you need to do. Chapter 9 The role of family and friends in shaping your habits. In 1965, a Hungarian man named Lazlo Pogar wrote a series of strange letters to woman named Clara. Lazlo was a firm believer in hard work. In fact, it was all he believed in. He completely rejected the idea of an eight talent. He claimed that with deliberate practice and the development of good habits, a child could become a genius in any field. As mantra was, a genius is not born, but is educated and trained. Lazlo believed in this idea so strongly that he wanted to test it out with his own children, and he was writing to Clara because he needed a wife willing to jump on board. Clara was a teacher, and although she may not have been as adamant as Lazlo, she also believed that with proper instruction, anyone could advance their skills. Lazlo decided chess would be a suitable field for the experiment, and he laid out a plan to raise his children to become chess prodigies. The kids would be homeschooled, a rarity and hungry at the time. The house would be filled with chess books and pictures of famous chess players. The children would play against each other constantly and compete in the best tournaments they could find. The family would keep a meticulous file system of the tournament history of every competitor of the children faced. Their lives would be dedicated to chess. Lazlo successfully courted Clara, and within a few years, the Pogars were parents to three young girls, Susan, Sophia, and Judith. Susan, the oldest, began playing chess when she was four years old.