and your ability to notice the relevant cues in a given situation is the foundation for every habit you have.
We underestimate how much our brains and bodies can do without thinking.
You do not tell your hair to grow, your heart to pump, your lungs to breathe, or your stomach to digest.
And yet, your body handles all of this and more on autopilot.
You are much more than your conscious self. Consider hunger.
How do you know when you are hungry?
You don't necessarily have to see a cookie on the counter to realize that it's time to eat.
Appetite and hunger are governed non -consciously.
Your body has a variety of feedback loops that gradually alert you when it is time to eat again and that track what is going on around you and within you.
Cravings can arise thanks to hormones and chemicals circulating through your body.
Suddenly, you are hungry even though you are not quite sure what tipped you off.
This is one of the most surprising insights about our habits.
You don't need to be aware of the cue for a habit to begin.
You can notice an opportunity and take action without dedicating conscious attention to it.
This is what makes a habit useful, but it's also what makes them dangerous.
As habits form, your actions come under the direction of your automatic and non -conscious mind.
You fall into old patterns before you realize what's happening.
Unless someone points it out, you may not notice that you cover your mouth with your hand whenever you laugh, or that you apologize before asking a question,
or that you have a habit of finishing other people's sentences.
And the more you repeat these patterns, the less likely you become to question what you're doing and why you're doing it.
I once heard of a retail clerk who was instructed to cut up empty gift cards after customers had used up the balance on the card.
One day, the clerk cashed out a few customers in a row who purchased with gift cards.
When the next person walked up, the clerk swiped the customer's actual credit card, picked up the scissors, and then cut it in half,
entirely on autopilot, before looking up at the stunned customer and realizing what had just happened.
Another woman I came across in my research was a former preschool teacher who had switched to a corporate job.
Even though she was now working with adults, her old habits would kick in, and she kept asking co -workers if they had washed their hands after going to the bathroom.
I also found the story of a man who had spent years working as a lifeguard and would occasionally yell, walk, whenever he saw a child running.
Over time, the cues that spark our habits can become so common that they are essentially invisible.
The treats on the kitchen counter, the remote control next to the couch, the phone in our pocket.
Our responses to these cues are so deeply encoded that it may feel like the urge to act comes from nowhere.
For this reason, we must begin the process of behavior change with awareness.
Before we can effectively build new habits, we need to get a handle on our current ones.
This can be more challenging than it sounds, because once a habit is firmly rooted in your life, it is mostly non -conscious and automatic.
If a habit remains mindless, you can't expect to improve it.
As the psychologist Carl Jung said, until you make the unconscious conscious, it will direct your life and you will call it fate. The habit scorecard.
The Japanese railway system is regarded as one of the best in the world.
If you ever find yourself riding a train in Tokyo, you'll notice that the conductors have a peculiar habit.
As each operator runs the train, they proceed through a ritual pointing at different objects and calling out commands.
When the train approaches the signal, the operator will point at it and say, signal is green.
As the train pulls into and out of each station, the operator will point at the speedometer and call out the exact speed.
When it's time to leave, the operator will point at the timetable and state the time.
Out on the platform, other employees are performing similar actions.
Before each train departs, staff members will point along the edge of the platform and declare, all clear.
Every detail is identified, pointed at, and named aloud.
This process, known as pointing and calling, is the safety system designed to reduce mistakes.
It seems silly, but it works incredibly well.
Pointing and calling reduces errors by up to 85 % and cuts accidents by 30%.
The MTA subway system in New York City adopted a modified version that is point only,
and within two years of implementation, incidents of incorrectly berthed subways fell 57%.
When I visited Japan, I saw this strategy save a woman's life.
Her young son stepped onto the Shinkansen, one of Japan's famous bullet trains that travel at over 200 miles per hour,
just as the doors were closing.
She was left outside on the platform and jammed her arm through the door to grab him.
With her arms stuck in the door, the train was about to take off, but right before it pulled away, an employee performed a safety check by pointing and calling up and down the platform.
In less than five seconds, he noticed the woman and managed to stop the train from leaving.
The door opened, and the woman, now in tears, ran to her son, and a minute later, the train departed safely.
Pointing and calling is so effective because it raises the level of awareness from a non -conscious habit to a more conscious level.
Because the train operators must use their eyes, hands, mouth, and ears, they are more likely to notice problems before something goes wrong. My wife does something similar.
Whenever we are preparing to walk out the door for a trip, she verbally calls out the most essential items in her packing list.
I've got my keys, I've got my wallet, I've got my glasses, I've got my husband.
The more automatic a behavior becomes, the less likely we are to consciously think about it.
And when we've done something a thousand times before, we begin to overlook things.
We assume that the next time will be just like the last.
We're so used to doing what we've always done, that we don't stop to question whether it is the right thing to do at all.
Many of our failures in performance are largely attributable to a lack of self -awareness.
One of our great challenges in changing habits is maintaining awareness of what we're actually doing.
This helps explain why the consequences of bad habits can sneak up on us.
We need a point -and -call system for our own lives.
That's the origin of the Habits Scorecard, which is a simple exercise you can use to become more aware of your behavior.
To create your own, make a list of your daily habits.