How I Learned About Habits Attending Denison was one of the best decisions of my life.
I earned a spot on the baseball team, and although I was at the bottom of the roster as a freshman, I was thrilled.
Despite the chaos of my high school years, I had managed to become a college athlete.
I wasn't going to be starting on the baseball team anytime soon, so I focused on getting my life in order.
While my peers stayed up late and played video games, I built good sleep habits and went to bed early each night.
In the messy world of a college dorm, I made a point to keep my room neat and tidy.
These improvements were minor, but they gave me a sense of control over my life.
I started to feel confident again, and this growing belief in myself rippled into the classroom as I improved my study habits and managed to earn straight A's during my first year.
A habit is a routine or behavior that is performed regularly, and, in many cases, automatically.
As each semester passed, I accumulated small but consistent habits that ultimately led to results that were unimaginable to me when I started.
For example, for the first time in my life, I made it a habit to lift weights multiple times per week,
and in the years that followed, my 6 -foot, 4 -inch frame bulked up from a featherweight 170 to a lean 200 pounds.
When my sophomore season arrived, I earned a starting role on the pitching staff.
By my junior year, I was voted team captain, and at the end of the season, I was selected for the all -conference team.
But it was not until my senior season that my sleep habits, study habits, and strength training habits really began to pay off.
Six years after I had been hit in the face with a baseball bat, flown to the hospital, and placed into a coma,
I was selected as the top male athlete at Denison University and named to the ESPN Academic All -America team,
an honor given to just 33 players across the country.
By the time I graduated, I was listed in the school record books in eight different categories.
That same year, I was awarded the university's highest academic honor, the President's Medal.
I hope you'll forgive me if this sounds boastful.
To be honest, there was nothing legendary or historic about my athletic career.
I never ended up playing professionally.
However, looking back on those years, I believe I accomplished something just as rare. I fulfilled my potential.
And I believe the concepts in this book can help you fulfill your potential as well.
We all face challenges in life.
This injury was one of mine.
And the experience taught me a critical lesson.
Changes that seem small and unimportant at first will compound into remarkable results if you're willing to stick with them for years.
We all deal with setbacks, but in the long run, the quality of our lives often depends on the quality of our habits.
With the same habits, you'll end up with the same results.
But with better habits, anything is possible.
Maybe there are people who can achieve incredible success overnight.
I don't know any of them, and I'm certainly not one of them.
There wasn't one defining moment in my journey from medically induced coma to academic All -American. There were many. It was a gradual evolution.
A long series of small wins and tiny breakthroughs.
The only way I made progress, the only choice I had to be honest, was to start small.
And I employed this same strategy a few years later when I started my own business and began working on this book.
How and why I wrote this book.
In November 2012, I began publishing articles at jamesclear .com.
For years, I had been keeping notes about my personal experiments with habits, and I was finally ready to share some of them publicly.
I began by publishing a new article every Monday and Thursday.
Within a few months, this simple writing habit led to my first 1 ,000 email subscribers.
And by the end of 2013, that number had grown to more than 30 ,000 people.
In 2014, my email list expanded to over 100 ,000 subscribers, which made it one of the fastest -growing newsletters on the internet.
I had felt like an imposter when I began writing two years earlier, but now I was becoming known as an expert on habits,
a new label that excited me but that also felt uncomfortable.
I had never considered myself a master of the topic, but rather someone who was experimenting alongside my readers.
In 2015, I reached 200 ,000 email subscribers and signed a book deal with Penguin Random House to begin writing the book you are listening to now.
As my audience grew, so did my business opportunities.
I was increasingly asked to speak at top companies about the science of habit formation, behavior change, and continuous improvement.
I found myself delivering keynote speeches at conferences in the United States and Europe.
In 2016, my articles began to appear regularly in major publications like Time, Entrepreneur, and Forbes.
Incredibly, my writing was read by over 8 million people that year.
Coaches in the NFL, NBA, and MLB began reading my work and sharing it with their teams.
And at the start of 2017, I launched the Habits Academy, which became the premier training platform for organizations and individuals interested in building better habits in life and work.
Fortune 500 companies and growing startups began to enroll their leaders and train their staff.
In total, over 10 ,000 leaders, managers, coaches, and teachers have graduated from the Habits Academy,
and my work with them has taught me an incredible amount about what it takes to make habits work in the real world.
You can learn more by visiting habitsacademy .com.
As I put the finishing touches on this book in 2018,
jamesclear .com is receiving millions of visitors per month and nearly 500 ,000 people subscribe to my weekly email newsletter,
a number that is so far beyond my expectations when I began that I'm not even sure what to think of it.
How this book will benefit you.
The entrepreneur and investor Naval Ravikant has said, to write a great book, you must first become the book.
I originally learned about the ideas mentioned here because I had to live them.
I had to rely on small habits to rebound from my injury, to get stronger in the gym, to perform at a high level in the field, to become a writer, to build a successful business,
and simply to develop into a responsible adult.
Small habits helped me fulfill my potential, and since you're listening to this book, I'm guessing you'd like to fulfill yours as well.
In what follows, I will share a step -by -step plan for building better habits, not for days or weeks, but for a lifetime.
While science supports everything I've written, this book is not meant to be an academic research paper. It's an operating manual.
You'll find wisdom and practical advice front and center as I explain the science of how to create and change your habits in a way that is easy to understand and apply.
The fields I draw on, biology, neuroscience, philosophy, psychology, and more,
have been around for many years.
What I offer you is a synthesis of the best ideas smart people figured out a long time ago, as well as the most compelling discoveries scientists have made recently.
My contribution, I hope, is to find the ideas that matter most and connect them in a way that is highly actionable.
Anything wise you hear, you should credit to the many experts who preceded me.
Anything foolish, assume it is my heir.
The backbone of this book is my four -step model of habits, cue, craving, response,
and reward, and the four laws of behavior change that evolve out of these steps.
Readers with a psychology background may recognize some of these terms from operant conditioning, which was first proposed as stimulus -response -reward by B .F.
Skinner in the 1930s, and has been popularized more recently as cue, routine, reward,
and the power of habit by Charles Duhigg.
Behavioral scientists like Skinner realized that if you offered the right reward or punishment, you could get people to act in a certain way.
But while Skinner's model did an excellent job of explaining how external stimuli influenced our habits,
it lacked a good explanation for how our thoughts, feelings, and beliefs impact our behavior.
Internal states, our moods and emotions, matter too.
In recent decades, scientists have begun to determine the connection between our thoughts, feelings, and behavior.
This research, too, will be covered here.
In total, the framework I offer is an integrated model of the cognitive and behavioral sciences.
I believe it is one of the first models of human behavior to accurately account for both the influence of external stimuli and internal emotions on our habits.
While some of the language may be familiar, I'm confident that the details and the applications of the four laws of behavior change will offer a new way to think about your habits. Human behavior is always changing.
Situation to situation, moment to moment, second to second.
But this book is about what doesn't change.
It's about the fundamentals of human behavior.
The lasting principles you can rely on year after year.
The ideas you can build a business around. Build a family around. Build a life around.
There is no one right way to create better habits.
But this book describes the best way I know.
An approach that will be effective regardless of where you start or what you're trying to change.
The strategies I cover will be relevant to anyone looking for a step -by -step system for improvement.
Whether your goals center on health, money,
productivity, relationships, or all of the above.
As long as human behavior is involved, this book will be your guide.