Part 1 -6 He knew what I was thinking, the boy said to himself.
The old man meanwhile was leafing through the book without seeming to want to return it at all.
The boy noticed that the man's clothing was strange.
He looked like an Arab which was not unusual in those parts.
Africa was only a few hours from Tarifa, one had only to cross the narrow straits by boat.
Arabs often appeared in the city, shopping and chanting their strange prayers several times a day. Where are you from? the boy asked. From many places.
No one can be from many places, the boy said.
I'm a shepherd and I have been to many places, but I come from only one place, from a city near an ancient castle. That's where I was born.
Well then we could say that I was born in Salem.
The boy didn't know where Salem was, but he didn't want to ask, fearing that he would appear ignorant.
He looked at the people in the plaza for a while.
They were coming and going and all of them seemed to be very busy. So what is Salem like?
he asked, trying to get some sort of clue.
It's like it always has been. No clue yet.
But he knew that Salem wasn't in Andalusia.
If it were, he would already have heard of it.
And what do you do in Salem? he insisted.
What do I do in Salem? The old man laughed.
Well, I'm the king of Salem.
People say strange things, the boy thought.
Sometimes it's better to be with the sheep who don't say anything.
And better still to be alone with one's books.
They tell their incredible stories at the time when you want to hear them.
But when you're talking to people, they say some things that are so strange that you don't know how to continue the conversation.
My name is Melchizedek, said the old man.
How many sheep do you have? Enough, said the boy.
He could see that the old man wanted to know more about his life.
Well then we've got a problem.
I can't help you if you feel you've got enough sheep. The boy was getting irritated. He wasn't asking for help.
It was the old man who had asked for a drink of his wine and had started the conversation.
Give me my book, the boy said.
I have to go and gather my sheep and get going.
Give me one -tenth of your sheep, said the old man, and I'll tell you how to find the hidden treasure.
The boy remembered his dream and suddenly everything was clear to him.
The old woman hadn't charged him anything, but the old man, maybe he was her husband, was going to find a way to get much more money in exchange for information about something that didn't even exist.
The old man was probably a gypsy too.
But before the boy could say anything, the old man leaned over, picked up a stick and began to write in the sand of the plaza.
Something bright reflected from his chest with such intensity that the boy was momentarily blinded.
With a movement that was too quick for someone his age, the man covered whatever it was with his cape.
When his vision returned to normal, the boy was able to read what the old man had written in the sand.
There, in the sand of the plaza of that small city, the boy read the names of his father and his mother and the name of the seminary he had attended.
He read the name of the merchant's daughter, which he hadn't even known, and he read things he had never told anyone.
I'm the king of Salem, the old man had said.
Why would a king be talking with a shepherd?
The boy asked, awed and embarrassed. For several reasons.
But let's say that the most important is that you have succeeded in discovering your personal legend.
The boy didn't know what a person's personal legend was.
It's what you have always wanted to accomplish.
Everyone, when they are young, knows what their personal legend is.
At that point in their lives, everything is clear and everything is possible.
They are not afraid to dream and to yearn for everything they would like to see happen to them in their lives.
But as time passes, a mysterious force begins to convince them that it will be impossible for them to realize their personal legend.
None of what the old man was saying made much sense to the boy.
But he wanted to know what the mysterious force was.
The merchant's daughter would be impressed when he told her about that.
It's a force that appears to be negative, but actually shows you how to realize your personal legend.
It prepares your spirit and your will because there is one great truth on this planet.
Whoever you are or whatever it is that you do when you really want something, it's because that desire originated in the soul of the universe. It's your mission on earth.
Even when all you want to do is travel.
Or marry the daughter of a textile merchant.
Yes or even search for treasure.
The soul of the world is nourished by people's happiness.
And also by unhappiness, envy and jealousy.
To realize one's personal legend is a person's only real obligation. All things are one.
And when you want something all the universe conspires in helping you to achieve it.
They were both silent for a time, observing the plaza and the townspeople.
It was the old man who spoke first.
Why do you tend a flock of sheep? Because I like to travel.
The old man pointed to a baker standing in his shop window at one corner of the plaza.
When he was a child that man wanted to travel too.
But he decided first to buy his bakery and put some money aside.
When he's an old man he's going to spend a month in Africa.
He never realized that people are capable at any time in their lives of doing what they dream of.
He should have decided to become a shepherd, the boy said.