Part 2 6 The caravan moved toward the east. It traveled during the morning, halted when the sun was at its strongest, and resumed late in the afternoon. The boy spoke very little with the Englishman who spent most of his time with his books.

The boy observed in silence the progress of the animals and people across the desert. Now everything was quite different from how it was that day they had set out. Then there had been confusion and shouting, the cries of children and the winning of animals, all mixed with the nervous orders of the guides and the merchants.

But in the desert there was only the sound of the eternal wind and of the hoof beats of the animals. Even the guides spoke very little to one another. I've crossed these sands many times, said one of the camel drivers one night.

But the desert is so huge and the horizon so distant that they make a person feel small and as if he should remain silent. The boy understood intuitively what he meant, even without ever having set foot in the desert before. Whenever he saw the sea or a fire he fell silent, impressed by their elemental force.

I've learned things from the sheep and I've learned things from crystal, he thought. I can learn something from the desert too. It seems old and wise.

The wind never stopped, and the boy remembered the day he had sat at the fort in Tarifa with this same wind blowing in his face. It reminded him of the wool from his sheep. His sheep who were now seeking food and water in the fields of Andalusia as they always had.

They're not my sheep anymore, he said to himself, without nostalgia. They must be used to their new shepherd and have probably already forgotten me. That is good.

Creatures like the sheep that are used to traveling know about moving on. He thought of the merchant's daughter and was sure that she had probably married. Perhaps to a baker or to another shepherd who could read and could tell her exciting stories, after all, he probably wasn't the only one.

But he was excited at his intuitive understanding of the camel driver's comment. Maybe he was also learning the universal language that deals with the past and the present of all people. Hunches.

His mother used to call them. The boy was beginning to understand that intuition is really a sudden immersion of the soul into the universal current of life, where the histories of all people are connected, and we are able to know everything because it's all written there. Mac Tubb, the boy said remembering the crystal merchant.

The desert was all sand and some stretches and rocky and others. When the caravan was blocked by a boulder, it had to go around it. If there was a large rocky area, they had to make a major detour.

If the sand was too fine for the animals hooves, they sought a way where the sand was more substantial. In some places, the ground was covered with the salt of dried up lakes. The animals balked at such places and the camel drivers were forced to dismount and unburden their charges.

The drivers carried the freight themselves over such treacherous footing, and then reloaded the camels. If a guide were to fall ill or die, the camel drivers would draw lots and appoint a new one. But all this happened for one basic reason.

No matter how many detours and adjustments it made, the caravan moved toward the same compass point. Once obstacles were overcome, it returned to its course, sighting on a star that indicated the location of the oasis. When the people saw that star shining in the morning sky, they knew they were on the right course toward water, palm trees, shelter, and other people.

It was only the Englishman who was unaware of all this. He was, for the most part, immersed in reading his books. The boy, too, had his book and he had tried to read it during the first few days of the journey.

But he found it much more interesting to observe the caravan and listen to the wind. As soon as he had learned to know his camel better and to establish a relationship with him, he threw the book away. Although the boy had developed a superstition that each time he opened the book he would learn something important, he decided it was an unnecessary burden.

He became friendly with the camel driver who traveled alongside him. At night, as they sat around the fire, the boy related to the driver his adventures as a shepherd. During one of these conversations, the driver told of his own life.

I used to live near Al Qairam, he said. I had my orchard my children and a life that would change not at all until I died. One year, when the crop was the best ever, we all went to Mecca, and I satisfied the only unmet obligation in my life.

I could die happily and that made me feel good. One day the earth began to tremble and the Nile overflowed its banks. It was something that I thought could happen only to others, never to me.

My neighbors feared they would lose all their olive trees in the flood and my wife was afraid that we would lose our children. I thought that everything I owned would be destroyed. The land was ruined and I had to find some other way to earn a living.

So now I'm a camel driver. But that disaster taught me to understand the word of Allah. People need not fear the unknown if they are capable of achieving what they need and want.

We are afraid of losing what we have, whether it's our life or our possessions and property. But this fear evaporates when we understand that our life stories and the history of the world were written by the same hand.