Part 2 -14. We always observe the tradition.
The tradition saved Egypt from famine in those days, and made the Egyptians the wealthiest of peoples.
The tradition teaches men how to cross the desert and how their children should marry.
The tradition says that an oasis is neutral territory, because both sides have oases and so both are vulnerable.
No one said a word as the old man continued, but the tradition also says that we should believe the messages of the desert. Part 2 -14.
Everything we know was taught to us by the desert.
The old man gave a signal and everyone stood. The meeting was over.
The hookahs were extinguished and the guards stood at attention.
The boy made ready to leave but the old man spoke again.
Tomorrow we are going to break the agreement that says that no one at the oasis may carry arms.
Throughout the entire day we will be on the lookout for our enemies.
When the sun sets, the men will once again surrender their arms to me.
For every ten dead men among our enemies, you will receive a piece of gold.
But arms cannot be drawn unless they also go into battle.
Arms are as capricious as the desert, and if they are not used the next time they might not function.
If at least one of them hasn't been used by the end of the day tomorrow, one will be used on you.
When the boy left the tent, the oasis was illuminated only by the light of the full moon.
He was twenty minutes from his tent and began to make his way there.
He was alarmed by what had happened.
He had succeeded in reaching through to the soul of the world, and now the price for having done so might be his life. It was a frightening bet.
But he had been making risky bets ever since the day he had sold his sheep to pursue his personal legend.
And as the camel driver had said, to die tomorrow was no worse than dying on any other day.
Every day was there to be lived or to mark one's departure from this world.
Everything depended on one word, Mac tub.
Walking along in the silence he had no regrets.
If he died tomorrow it would be because God was not willing to change the future.
He would at least have died after having crossed the strait, after having worked in a crystal shop,
and after having known the silence of the desert and Fatima's eyes.
He had lived every one of his days intensely since he had left home so long ago.
If he died tomorrow he would already have seen more than other shepherds and he was proud of that.
Suddenly he heard a thundering sound, and he was thrown to the ground by a wind such as he had never known.
The area was swirling in dust so intense that it hid the moon from view.
Before him was an enormous white horse, rearing over him with a frightening scream.
When the blinding dust had settled a bit, the boy trembled at what he saw.
Astride the animal was a horseman dressed completely in black, with a falcon perched on his left shoulder.
He wore a turban and his entire face except for his eyes was covered with a black kerchief.
He appeared to be a messenger from the desert, but his presence was much more powerful than that of a mere messenger.
The strange horseman drew an enormous curved sword from a scabbard mounted on his saddle.
The steel of its blade glittered in the light of the moon.
Who dares to read the meaning of the flight of the hawks?
he demanded so loudly that his words seemed to echo through the fifty thousand palm trees of Alfheim.
It is I who dared to do so, said the boy.
He was reminded of the image of Santiago Matamoros, mounted on his white horse, with the infidels beneath his hooves.
This man looked exactly the same except that now the roles were reversed.
It is I who dared to do so, he repeated, and he lowered his head to receive a blow from the sword.
Many lives will be saved because I was able to see through to the soul of the world. The sword didn't fall.
Instead, the stranger lowered it slowly until the point touched the boy's forehead.
It drew a droplet of blood.
The horseman was completely immobile as was the boy.
It didn't even occur to the boy to flee.
In his heart he felt a strange sense of joy.
He was about to die in pursuit of his personal legend. And for Fatima.
The omens had been true after all.
Here he was face to face with his enemy, but there was no need to be concerned about dying, the soul of the world awaited him and he would soon be a part of it.
And tomorrow his enemy would also be a part of that soul.
The stranger continued to hold the sword at the boy's forehead.
Why did you read The Flight of the Birds?
I read only what the birds wanted to tell me.
They wanted to save the oasis.
Tomorrow all of you will die because there are more men at the oasis than you have.
The sword remained where it was.
Who are you to change what Allah has willed?
Allah created the armies and he also created the hawks.
Allah taught me the language of the birds.
Everything has been written by the same hand, the boy said, remembering the camel driver's words.
The stranger withdrew the sword from the boy's forehead, and the boy felt immensely relieved. But he still couldn't flee.
Be careful with your prognostications, said the stranger.
When something is written, there is no way to change it.
All I saw was an army, said the boy.
I didn't see the outcome of the battle.
The stranger seemed satisfied with the answer.
But he kept the sword in his hand.
What is a stranger doing in a strange land?
I am following my personal legend.
It's not something you would understand.