Part 2-9 The times rush past and so do the caravans thought the alchemist as he watched the hundreds of people and animals arriving at the oasis. People were shouting at the new arrivals, dust obscured the desert sun, and the children of the oasis were bursting with excitement at the arrival of the strangers. The alchemists saw the tribal chiefs greet the leader of the caravan and converse with him at length.

But none of that mattered to the alchemist. He had already seen many people come and go and the desert remained as it was. He had seen kings and beggars walking the desert sands.

The dunes were changed constantly by the wind, yet these were the same sands he had known since he was a child. He always enjoyed seeing the happiness that the travelers experienced when after weeks of yellow sand and blue sky, they first saw the green of the date palms. Maybe God created the desert so that man could appreciate the date trees, he thought.

He decided to concentrate on more practical matters. He knew that in the caravan there was a man to whom he was to teach some of his secrets. The omens had told him so.

He didn t know the man yet, but his practice I would recognize him when he appeared. He hoped that it would be someone as capable as his previous apprentice. I don t know why these things have to be transmitted by word of mouth, he thought.

It wasn t exactly that they were secrets. God revealed his secrets easily to all his creatures. He had only one explanation for this fact.

Things have to be transmitted this way because they were made up from the pure life, and this kind of life cannot be captured in pictures or words. Because people become fascinated with pictures and words, and wind up forgetting the language of the world. The boy couldn t believe what he was seeing, the oasis rather than being just a well surrounded by a few palm trees as he had seen once in a geography book, was much larger than many towns back in Spain.

There were 300 wells, 50,000 date trees, and innumerable colored tents spread among them. It looks like 8001 knights, said the Englishman, impatient to meet with the alchemist. They were surrounded by children, curious to look at the animals and people that were arriving.

The men of the oasis wanted to know if they had seen any fighting, and the women competed with one another for access to the cloth and precious stones brought by the merchants. The silence of the desert was a distant dream. The travelers in the caravan were talking incessantly, laughing and shouting, as if they had emerged from the spiritual world and found themselves once again in the world of people.

They were relieved and happy. They had been taking careful precautions in the desert, but the camel driver explained to the boy that oasis were always considered to be neutral territories, because the majority of the inhabitants were women and children. There were oasis throughout the desert, but the tribesmen fought in the desert, leaving the oasis as places of refuge.

With some difficulty, the leader of the caravan brought all his people together and gave them his instructions. The group was to remain there at the oasis until the conflict between the tribes was over. Since they were visitors, they would have to share living space with those who lived there and would be given the best accommodations.

That was the law of hospitality. Then he asked that everyone, including his own sentinels, hand over their arms to the men appointed by the tribal chieftains. Those are the rules of war, the leader explained.

The oasis may not shelter armies or troops. To the boy's surprise, the Englishman took a chrome-plated revolver out of his bag and gave it to the men who were collecting the arms. Why a revolver, he asked.

It helped me to trust in people, the Englishman answered. Meanwhile, the boy thought about his treasure. The closer he got to the realization of his dream, the more difficult things became.

It seemed as if what the Old King had called beginner's luck were no longer functioning. In his pursuit of the dream, he was being constantly subjected to tests of his persistence and courage. So he could not be hasty nor impatient.

If he pushed forward impulsively, he would fail to see the signs and omens left by God along his path. God placed them along my path. He had surprised himself with the thought.

Until then, he had considered the omens to be things of this world. Like eating or sleeping or like seeking love or finding a job. He had never thought of them in terms of a language used by God to indicate what he should do.

Don't be impatient, he repeated to himself. It's like the camel driver said, eat when it's time to eat. And move along when it's time to move along.

That first day, everyone slept from exhaustion, including the Englishman. The boy was assigned a place far from his friend, in a tent with five other young men of about his age. They were people of the desert and clamored to hear his stories about the great cities.

The boy told them about his life as a shepherd, and was about to tell them of his experiences at the crystal shop when the Englishman came into the tent. I've been looking for you all morning, he said as he led the boy outside. I need you to help me find out where the alchemist lives.

First, they tried to find him on their own. An alchemist would probably live in a manner that was different from that of the rest of the people at the oasis. And it was likely that in his tent an oven was continuously burning.

They searched everywhere and found that the oasis was much larger than they could have imagined. There were hundreds of tents.