Part 2 -11 I waited all afternoon and evening, he said.
He appeared with the first stars of evening.
I told him what I was seeking and he asked me if I had ever transformed lead into gold.
I told him that was what I had come here to learn.
He told me I should try to do so.
That's all he said, go and try. The boy didn't say anything.
The poor Englishman had traveled all this way, only to be told that he should repeat what he had already done so many times.
So then try, he said to the Englishman.
That's what I'm going to do. I'm going to start now.
As the Englishman left, Fatima arrived and filled her vessel with water.
I came to tell you just one thing, the boy said.
I want you to be my wife. I love you.
The girl dropped the container and the water spilt.
I'm going to wait here for you every day.
I have crossed the desert in search of a treasure that is somewhere near the pyramids and for me the war seemed a curse.
But now it's a blessing because it brought me to you.
The war is going to end someday, the girl said.
The boy looked around him at the date palms.
He reminded himself that he had been a shepherd and that he could be a shepherd again.
Fatima was more important than his treasure.
The tribesmen are always in search of treasure, the girl said as if she had guessed what he was thinking,
and the women of the desert are proud of their tribesmen.
She refilled her vessel and left.
The boy went to the well every day to meet with Fatima.
He told her about his life as a shepherd about the king and about the crystal shop.
They became friends and except for the fifteen minutes he spent with her, each day seemed that it would never pass.
When he had been at the oasis for almost a month, the leader of the caravan called a meeting of all of the people traveling with him.
We don't know when the war will end so we can't continue our journey, he said.
The battles may last for a long time, perhaps even years.
There are powerful forces on both sides and the war is important to both armies.
It's not a battle of good against evil.
It's a war between forces that are fighting for the balance of power, and when that type of battle begins it lasts longer than others, because Allah is on both sides.
The people went back to where they were living and the boy went to meet with Fatima that afternoon.
He told her about the morning's meeting.
The day after we met, Fatima said, you told me that you loved me.
Then you taught me something of the universal language and the soul of the world.
Because of that, I have become a part of you.
The boy listened to the sound of her voice, and thought it to be more beautiful than the sound of the wind in the date palms.
I have been waiting for you here at this oasis for a long time.
I have forgotten about my past, about my traditions, and the way in which men of the desert expect women to behave.
Ever since I was a child, I have dreamed that the desert would bring me a wonderful present.
Now my present has arrived and it's you.
The boy wanted to take her hand.
But Fatima's hands held to the handles of her jug.
You have told me about your dreams about the old king and your treasure.
And you've told me about omens.
So now, I fear nothing because it was those omens that brought you to me.
And I am a part of your dream, a part of your personal legend as you call it.
That's why I want you to continue toward your goal.
You have to wait until the war is over, then wait.
But if you have to go before then, go on in pursuit of your dream.
The dunes are changed by the wind but the desert never changes.
That's the way it will be with our love for each other. Maktub, she said.
If I am really a part of your dream you'll come back one day.
The boy was sad as he left her that day.
He thought of all the married shepherds he had known.
They had a difficult time convincing their wives that they had to go off into distant fields.
Love required them to stay with the people they loved.
He told Fatima that at their next meeting.
The desert takes our men from us and they don't always return, she said.
We know that and we are used
those who don't return become a part of the clouds, a part of the animals that hide in the ravines and of the water that comes from the earth.
They become a part of everything.
They become the soul of the world. Some do come back.
And then the other women are happy because they believe that their men may one day return as well.
I used to look at those women and envy them their happiness.
Now I too will be one of the women who wait.
I'm a desert woman and I'm proud of that.
I want my husband to wander as free as the wind that shapes the dunes.
And if I have to, I will accept the fact that he has become a part of the clouds and the animals and the water of the desert.
The boy went to look for the Englishman.
He wanted to tell him about Fatima.
He was surprised when he saw that the Englishman had built himself a furnace outside his tent.
It was a strange furnace fueled by firewood with a transparent flask heating on top.
As the Englishman stared out at the desert, his eyes seemed brighter than they had when he was reading his books.
This is the first phase of the job, he said.
I have to separate out the sulfur.
To do that successfully I must have no fear of failure.
It was my fear of failure that first kept me from attempting the masterwork.
Now I'm beginning what I could have started ten years ago.
But I'm happy at least that I didn't wait twenty years.