Part 2-13 When people consult me, it's not that I'm reading the future. I am guessing at the future. The future belongs to God, and it is only He who reveals it under extraordinary circumstances.

How do I guess at the future? Based on the omens of the present. The secret is here in the present.

If you pay attention to the present, you can improve upon it. And if you improve on the present, what comes later will also be better. Forget about the future and live each day according to the teachings, confident that God loves His children.

Each day in itself brings with it an eternity. The camel driver had asked what the circumstances were under which God would allow him to see the future. Only when He Himself reveals it.

And God only rarely reveals the future. When He does so, it is for only one reason. It's a future that was written so as to be altered.

God had shown the boy a part of the future, the camel driver thought. Why was it that He wanted the boy to serve as His instrument? Go and speak to the tribal chieftains, said the camel driver.

Tell them about the armies that are approaching. They'll laugh at me. They are men of the desert, and the men of the desert are used to dealing with omens.

Well then, they probably already know. They're not concerned with that right now. They believe that if they have to know about something Allah wants them to know, someone will tell them about it.

It has happened many times before. But this time the person is you. The boy thought of Fatima, and he decided he would go to see the chiefs of the tribes.

The boy approached the guard at the front of the huge white tent at the center of the oasis. I want to see the chieftains. I've brought omens from the desert.

Without responding, the guard entered the tent where he remained for some time. When he emerged, it was with a young Arab dressed in white and gold. The boy told the younger man what he had seen, and the man asked him to wait there.

He disappeared into the tent. Night fell, and an assortment of fighting men and merchants entered and exited the tent. One by one, the campfires were extinguished, and the oasis fell as quiet as the desert.

Only the lights in the great tent remained. During all this time, the boy thought about Fatima, and he was still unable to understand his last conversation with her. Finally, after hours of waiting, the guard bathed the boy and her.

The boy was astonished by what he saw inside. Never could he have imagined that, there in the middle of the desert, there existed a tent like this one. The ground was covered with the most beautiful carpets he had ever walked upon, and from the top of the structure hung lamps of hand-wrought gold, each with a lighted candle.

The tribal chieftains were seated at the back of the tent in a semi-circle, resting upon richly embroidered silk cushions. Servants came and went with silver trays laden with spices and tea. Other servants maintained the fires in the hukas.

The atmosphere was suffused with the sweet scent of smoke. There were eight chieftains, but the boy could see immediately which of them was the most important, an Arab dressed in white and gold seated at the center of the semi-circle. At his side was the young Arab the boy had spoken with earlier.

Who is this stranger who speaks of omens? asked one of the chieftains, eyeing the boy. It is I, the boy answered, and he told what he had seen.

Why would the desert reveal such things to a stranger when it knows that we have been here for generations? said another of the chieftains. Because my eyes are not yet accustomed to the desert, the boy said, I can see things that eyes habituated to the desert might not see.

And also because I know about the soul of the world he thought to himself. The oasis is neutral ground. No one attacks an oasis, said a third chieftain.

I can only tell you what I saw. If you don't want to believe me, you don't have to do anything about it. The men fell into an animated discussion.

They spoke in an Arabic dialect that the boy didn't understand, but when he made to leave the guard told him to stay. The boy became fearful. The omens told him that something was wrong.

He regretted having spoken to the camel driver about what he had seen in the desert. Suddenly the elder at the center smiled almost imperceptibly and the boy felt better. The man hadn't participated in the discussion and in fact hadn't said a word up to that point.

But the boy was already used to the language of the world and he could feel the vibrations of peace throughout the tent. Now his intuition was that he had been right in coming. The discussion ended.

The chieftains were silent for a few moments as they listened to what the old man was saying. Then he turned to the boy. This time his expression was cold and distant.

2000 years ago in a distant land, a man who believed in dreams was thrown into a dungeon and then sold as a slave. The old man said, now in the dialect the boy understood. Our merchants bought that man and brought him to Egypt.

All of us know that whoever believes in dreams also knows how to interpret them. The elder continued, when the pharaoh dreamed of cows that were thin and cows that were fat. This man I'm speaking of rescued Egypt from famine.

His name was Joseph. He too was a stranger in a strange land like you and he was probably about your age. He paused and his eyes were still unfriendly.