Part 2 -3 The boy awoke before dawn.
It had been eleven months and nine days since he had first set foot on the African continent.
He dressed in his Arabian clothing of white linen, bought especially for this day.
He put his headcloth in place and secured it with a ring made of camel skin.
Wearing his new sandals, he descended the stairs silently. The city was still sleeping.
He prepared himself a sandwich and drank some hot tea from a crystal glass.
Then he sat in the sun -filled doorway, smoking the hookah.
He smoked in silence, thinking of nothing and listening to the sound of the wind that brought the scent of the desert.
When he had finished his smoke he reached into one of his pockets and sat there for a few moments regarding what he had withdrawn.
It was a bundle of money.
Enough to buy himself a hundred and twenty sheep, a return ticket, and a license to import products from Africa into his own country.
He waited patiently for the merchant to awaken and open the shop.
Then the two went off to have some more tea.
I'm leaving today, said the boy.
I have the money I need to buy my sheep.
And you have the money you need to go to Mecca. The old man said nothing.
Will you give me your blessing? asked the boy. You have helped me.
The man continued to prepare his tea, saying nothing.
Then he turned to the boy.
I am proud of you, he said.
You brought a new feeling into my crystal shop.
But you know that I'm not going to go to Mecca, just as you know that you're not going to buy your sheep. Who told you that? asked the boy, startled.
Mac tub, said the old crystal merchant.
And he gave the boy his blessing.
The boy went to his room and packed his belongings. They filled three sacks.
As he was leaving he saw in the corner of the room his old shepherd's pouch.
It was bunched up and he had hardly thought of it for a long time.
As he took his jacket out of the pouch thinking to give it to someone in the street, the two stones fell to the floor. Urim and Thummim.
It made the boy think of the old king, and it startled him to realize how long it had been since he had thought of him.
For nearly a year, he had been working incessantly, thinking only of putting aside enough money so that he could return to Spain with pride.
Never stop dreaming, the old king had said. Follow the omens.
The boy picked up Urim and Thummim and once again had the strange sensation that the old king was nearby.
He had worked hard for a year and the omens were that it was time to go.
I'm going to go back to doing just what I did before, the boy thought.
Even though the sheep didn't teach me to speak Arabic.
But the sheep had taught him something even more important, that there was a language in the world that everyone understood, a language the boy had used throughout the time that he was trying to improve things at the shop.
It was the language of enthusiasm, of things accomplished with love and purpose, and as part of a search for something believed in and desired.
Tangier was no longer a strange city, and he felt that just as he had conquered this place he could conquer the world.
When you want something all the universe conspires to help you achieve it, the old king had said.
But the old king hadn't said anything about being robbed or about endless deserts, or about people who know what their dreams are but don't want to realize them.
The old king hadn't told him that the pyramids were just a pile of stones, or that anyone could build one in his backyard.
And he had forgotten to mention that when you have enough money to buy a flock larger than the one you had before, you should buy it.
The boy picked up his pouch and put it with his other things.
He went down the stairs and found the merchant waiting on a foreign couple, while two other customers walked about the shop, drinking tea from crystal glasses.
It was more activity than usual for this time of the morning.
From where he stood he saw for the first time that the old merchant's hair was very much like the hair of the old king.
He remembered the smile of the candy seller on his first day in Tangier, when he had nothing to eat and nowhere to go, that smile had also been like the old king's smile.
It's almost as if he had been here and left his mark, he thought.
And yet, none of these people has ever met the old king.
On the other hand, he said that he always appeared to help those who are trying to realize their personal legend.
He left without saying goodbye to the crystal merchant.
He didn't want to cry with the other people there.
He was going to miss the place and all the good things he had learned.
He was more confident in himself though and felt as though he could conquer the world.
But I'm going back to the fields that I know to take care of my flock again.
He said that to himself with certainty, but he was no longer happy with his decision.
He had worked for an entire year to make a dream come true, and that dream minute by minute was becoming less important.
Maybe because that wasn't really his dream. Who knows?
Maybe it's better to be like the crystal merchant.
Never go to Mecca and just go through life wanting to do so he thought again trying to convince himself.
But as he held Urim and Thummim in his hand, they had transmitted to him the strength and will of the old king.
By coincidence or maybe it was an omen the boy thought he came to the bar he had entered on his first day there.
The thief wasn't there and the owner brought him a cup of tea.