Part 1 -8 He decided to return to his friend's stable by the longest route possible.
As he walked past the city's castle he interrupted his return and climbed the stone ramp that led to the top of the wall.
From there he could see Africa in the distance.
Someone had once told him that it was from there that the Moors had come to occupy all of Spain.
He could see almost the entire city from where he sat including the plaza where he had talked with the old man.
Curse the moment I met that old man he thought.
He had come to the town only to find a woman who could interpret his dream.
Neither the woman nor the old man was at all impressed by the fact that he was a shepherd.
They were solitary individuals who no longer believed in things and didn't understand that shepherds become attached to their sheep.
He knew everything about each member of his flock.
He knew which ones were lame which one was to give birth two months from now and which were the laziest.
He knew how to shear them and how to slaughter them.
If he ever decided to leave them they would suffer.
The wind began to pick up. He knew that wind.
People called it the Levanter because on it the Moors had come from the Levant at the eastern end of the Mediterranean. The Levanter increased in intensity.
Here I am between my flock and my treasure the boy thought.
He had to choose between something he had become accustomed to and something he wanted to have.
There was also the merchant's daughter but she wasn't as important as his flock because she didn't depend on him.
Maybe she didn't even remember him.
He was sure that it made no difference to her on which day he appeared.
For her every day was the same and when each day is the same as the next it's because people fail to recognize the good things that happen in their lives every day that the sun rises.
I left my father my mother and the town castle behind.
They have gotten used to my being
The sheep will get used to my not being there too the boy thought.
From where he sat he could observe the plaza.
People continued to come and go from the baker's shop.
A young couple sat on the bench where he had talked with the old man and they kissed.
That baker, he said to himself without completing the thought.
The Levanter was still getting stronger and he felt its force on his face.
That wind had brought the Moors yes, but it had also brought the smell of the desert and of failed women.
It had brought with it the sweat and the dreams of men who had once left to search for the unknown and for gold and adventure and for the pyramids.
The boy felt jealous of the freedom of the wind and saw that he could have the same freedom.
There was nothing to hold him back except himself.
The sheep, the merchant's daughter, and the fields of Andalusia were only steps along the way to his personal legend.
The next day the boy met the old man at noon.
He brought six sheep with him. I'm surprised, the boy said.
My friend bought all the other sheep immediately.
He said that he had always dreamed of being a shepherd and that it was a good omen.
That's the way it always is, said the old man.
It's called the principle of favorability.
When you play cards the first time you are almost sure to win. Beginner's luck. Why is that?
Because there is a force that wants you to realize your personal legend.
It whets your appetite with a taste of success.
Then the old man began to inspect the sheep and he saw that one was lame.
The boy explained that it wasn't important, since that sheep was the most intelligent of the flock and produced the most wool. Where is the treasure? he asked.
It's in Egypt, near the pyramids. The boy was startled.
The old woman had said the same thing.
But she hadn't charged him anything.
In order to find the treasure you will have to follow the omens.
God has prepared a path for everyone to follow.
You just have to read the omens that he left for you.
Before the boy could reply, a butterfly appeared and fluttered between him and the old man.
He remembered something his grandfather had once told him, that butterflies were a good omen, like crickets and like grasshoppers, like lizards and four -leaf clovers.
That's right, said the old man, able to read the boy's thoughts.
Just as your grandfather taught you. These are good omens.
The old man opened his cape and the boy was struck by what he saw.
The old man wore a breastplate of heavy gold, covered with precious stones.
The boy recalled the brilliance he had noticed on the previous day. He really was a king.
He must be disguised to avoid encounters with thieves.
Take these, said the old man, holding out a white stone and a black stone that had been embedded at the center of the breastplate.
They are called Urim and Thummim.
The black signifies, yes, and the white, no.
When you are unable to read the omens they will help you to do so. Always ask an objective question.
But if you can, try to make your own decisions.
The treasure is at the pyramids, that you already knew.
But I had to insist on the payment of six sheep because I helped you to make your decision.
The boy put the stones in his pouch.
From then on he would make his own decisions.
From then on he would make your own decisions.
From then on he would make your own decisions.
From then on he would make your own decisions.
From then on he would make your own decisions.
From then on he would make your own decisions.