Part 2-10 We've wasted almost the entire day," said the Englishman, sitting down with the boy near one of the wells. Maybe we'd better ask someone, the boy suggested. The Englishman didn't want to tell others about his reasons for being at the oasis, and couldn't make up his mind.

But finally he agreed that the boy who spoke better Arabic than he should do so. The boy approached a woman who had come to the well to fill a goat's skin with water. Good afternoon, ma'am.

I'm trying to find out where the alchemist lives here at the oasis. The woman said she had never heard of such a person and hurried away. But before she fled, she advised the boy that he had better not try to converse with women who were dressed in black, because they were married women.

He should respect tradition. The Englishman was disappointed. It seemed he had made the long journey for nothing.

The boy was also saddened. His friend was in pursuit of his personal legend. And when someone was in such pursuit, the entire universe made an effort to help him succeed.

That's what the old king had said. He couldn't have been wrong. I had never heard of alchemists before, the boy said.

Maybe no one here has either. The Englishman's eyes lit up. That's it.

Maybe no one here knows what an alchemist is. Find out who it is who cures the people's illnesses. Several women dressed in black came to the well for water, but the boy would speak to none of them, despite the Englishman's insistence.

Then a man approached. Do you know someone here who cures people's illnesses? The boy asked.

All that cures our illnesses, said the man, clearly frightened of the strangers. You're looking for which doctors? He spoke some verses from the Quran and moved on.

Another man appeared. He was older and was carrying a small bucket. The boy repeated his question.

Why do you want to find that sort of person? The Arab asked. Because my friend here has traveled for many months in order to meet with him, the boy said.

If such a man is here at the oasis, he must be the very powerful one, said the old man after thinking for a few moments. Not even the tribal chieftains are able to see him when they want to. Only when he consents.

Wait for the end of the war. Then leave with the caravan. Don't try to enter into the life of the oasis, he said and walked away.

But the Englishman was exultant. They were on the right track. Finally, a young woman approached who was not dressed in black.

She had a vessel on her shoulder and her head was covered by a veil, but her face was uncovered. The boy approached her to ask about the alchemist. At that moment it seemed to him that time stood still and the soul of the world surged within him.

When he looked into her dark eyes and saw that her lips were poised between a laugh and silence, he learned the most important part of the language that all the world spoke, the language that everyone on earth was capable of understanding in their heart. Buzzlove. Something older than humanity, more ancient than the desert.

Something that exerted the same force whenever two pairs of eyes met, as had theirs here at the well. She smiled and that was certainly an omen, the omen he had been awaiting without even knowing he was for all his life. The omen he had sought to find with his sheep and in his books, in the crystals and in the silence of the desert.

It was the pure language of the world. It required no explanation just as the universe needs none as it travels through endless time. What the boy felt at that moment was that he was in the presence of the only woman in his life, and that with no need for words she recognized the same thing.

He was more certain of it than of anything in the world. He had been told by his parents and grandparents that he must fall in love and really know a person before becoming committed. But maybe people who felt that way had never learned the universal language.

Because when you know that language, it's easy to understand that someone in the world awaits you, whether it's in the middle of the desert or in some great city. And when two such people encounter each other and their eyes meet, the past and the future become unimportant. There is only that moment and the incredible certainty that everything under the sun has been written by one hand only.

It is the hand that evokes love and creates a twin soul for every person in the world. Without such love, one's dreams would have no meaning. Makhtab thought the boy.

The Englishman shook the boy. Come on, ask her. The boy stepped closer to the girl and when she smiled he did the same.

What's your name? he asked. Fatima, the girl said, averting her eyes.

That's what some women in my country are called. It's the name of the prophet's daughter, Fatima said. The invaders carried the name everywhere.

The beautiful girl spoke of the invaders with pride. The Englishman prodded him and the boy asked her about the man who cured people's illnesses. That's the man who knows all the secrets of the world, she said.

He communicates with the genies of the desert. The genies were the spirits of good and evil. And the girl pointed to the south, indicating that it was there the strange man lived.

Then she filled her vessel with water and left. The Englishman vanished too, gone to find the alchemist. And the boy sat there by the well for a long time, remembering that one day in Tarifa the Levantor had brought to him the perfume of that woman, and realizing that he had loved her before he even knew she existed.

He knew that his love for her would enable him to discover every treasure in the world. The next day the boy returned to the well hoping to see the girl. To his surprise the Englishman was there looking out at the desert.