Part 2 -5 The boy closed his book.
He felt that he didn't want to do anything that might make him look like the Englishman.
He took Urim and Thummim from his pocket and began playing with them.
The stranger shouted, Urim and Thummim.
In a flash the boy put them back in his pocket.
They're not for sale, he said.
They're not worth much, the Englishman answered.
They're only made of rock crystal and there are millions of rock crystals in the earth.
But those who know about such things would know that those are Urim and Thummim.
I didn't know that they had them in this part of the world.
They were given to me as a present by a king, the boy said. The stranger didn't answer.
Instead he put his hand in his pocket and took out two stones that were the same as the boy's. Did you say a king? he asked.
I guess you don't believe that a king would talk to someone like me, a shepherd, he said wanting to end the conversation. Not at all.
It was shepherds who were the first to recognize the king that the rest of the world refused to acknowledge.
So it's not surprising that kings would talk to shepherds.
And he went on, fearing that the boy wouldn't understand what he was talking about. It's in the Bible.
The same book that taught me about Urim and Thummim.
These stones were the only form of divination permitted by God.
The priests carried them in a golden breastplate.
The boy was suddenly happy to be there at the warehouse.
Maybe this is an omen, said the Englishman, half aloud. Who told you about omens?
The boy's interest was increasing by the moment.
Everything in life is an omen, said the Englishman, now closing the journal he was reading.
There is a universal language understood by everybody but already forgotten.
I am in search of that universal language among other things. That's why I'm here.
I have to find a man who knows that universal language. An alchemist.
The conversation was interrupted by the warehouse boss.
You're in luck, you too, the fat Arab said.
There's a caravan leaving today for Al -Faim.
But I'm going to Egypt, the boy said.
Al -Faim is in Egypt, said the Arab.
What kind of Arab are you?
That's a good luck omen, the Englishman said after the fat Arab had gone out.
If I could I'd write a huge encyclopedia just about the words luck and coincidence.
It's with those words that the universal language is written.
He told the boy it was no coincidence that he had met him with Urim and Thummim in his hand.
And he asked the boy if he too were in search of the alchemist.
I'm looking for a treasure, said the boy and he immediately regretted having said it.
But the Englishman appeared not to attach any importance to it.
In a way so am I, he said.
I don't even know what alchemy is, the boy was saying when the warehouse boss called to them to come outside.
I'm the leader of the caravan, said a dark -eyed, bearded man.
I hold the power of life and death for every person I take with me.
The desert is a capricious lady and sometimes she drives men crazy.
There were almost two hundred people gathered there and four hundred animals, camels, horses, mules and fowl.
In the crowd were women, children and a number of men with swords at their belts and rifles slung on their shoulders.
The Englishman had several suitcases filled with books.
There was a babble of noise, and the leader had to repeat himself several times for everyone to understand what he was saying.
There are a lot of different people here and each has his own God.
But the only God I serve is Allah, and in his name I swear that I will do everything possible once again to win out over the desert.
But I want each and every one of you to swear by the God you believe in that you will follow my orders no matter what.
In the desert disobedience means death.
There was a murmur from the crowd.
Each was swearing quietly to his or her own God.
The boy swore to Jesus Christ.
The Englishman said nothing, and the murmur lasted longer than a simple vow would have.
The people were also praying to heaven for protection.
A long note was sounded on a bugle and everyone mounted up.
The boy and the Englishman had bought camels and climbed uncertainly onto their backs.
The boy felt sorry for the Englishman's camel, loaded down as he was with the cases of books.
There's no such thing as coincidence, said the Englishman, picking up the conversation where it had been interrupted in the warehouse.
I'm here because a friend of mine heard of an Arab who.
But the caravan began to move, and it was impossible to hear what the Englishman was saying.
The boy knew what he was about to describe, though.
The mysterious chain that links one thing to another.
The same chain that had caused him to become a shepherd, that had caused his recurring dream, that had brought him to a city near Africa, to find a king, and to be robbed in order to meet a crystal merchant, and...
The closer one gets to realizing his personal legend, the more that personal legend becomes his true reason for being, thought the boy.