Part 2-12 He continued to feed the fire, and the boy stayed on until the desert turned pink in the setting sun. He felt the urge to go out into the desert to see if its silence held the answers to his questions. He wandered for a while, keeping the date palms of the oasis within sight.

He listened to the wind and felt the stones beneath his feet. Here and there he found a shell and realized that the desert in remote times had been a sea. He sat on a stone and allowed himself to become hypnotized by the horizon.

He tried to deal with the concept of love as distinct from possession and couldn't separate them. But Fatima was a woman of the desert, and if anything could help him to understand, it was the desert. As he sat there thinking he sensed movement above him.

Looking up he saw a pair of hawks flying high in the sky. He watched the hawks as they drifted on the wind. Although their flight appeared to have no pattern, it made a certain kind of sense to the boy.

It was just that he couldn't grasp what it meant. He followed the movement of the birds trying to read something into it. Maybe these desert birds could explain to him the meaning of love without ownership.

He felt sleepy. In his heart he wanted to remain awake, but he also wanted to sleep. I am learning the language of the world and everything in the world is beginning to make sense to me.

Even the flight of the hawks, he said to himself. And in that mood he was grateful to be in love. When you are in love, things make even more sense, he thought.

Suddenly one of the hawks made a flashing dive through the sky, attacking the other. As it did so, a sudden fleeting image came to the boy, an army with its swords at the ready, riding into the oasis. The vision vanished immediately, but it had shaken him.

He had heard people speak of mirages and had already seen some himself. They were desires that because of their intensity materialized over the sands of the desert. But he certainly didn't desire that an army invade the oasis.

He wanted to forget about the vision and return to his meditation. He tried again to concentrate on the pink shades of the desert and its stones. But there was something there in his heart that wouldn't allow him to do so.

Always heed the omens, the old king had said. The boy recalled what he had seen in the vision and sensed that it was actually going to occur. He rose and made his way back toward the palm trees.

Once again he perceived the many languages in the things about him. This time the desert was safe and it was the oasis that had become dangerous. The camel driver was seated at the base of a palm tree, observing the sunset.

He saw the boy appear from the other side of the dunes. An army is coming, the boy said. I had a vision.

The desert fills men's hearts with visions, the camel driver answered. But the boy told him about the hawks, that he had been watching their flight and had suddenly felt himself to have plunged to the soul of the world. The camel driver understood what the boy was saying.

He knew that any given thing on the face of the earth could reveal the history of all things. One could open a book to any page or look at a person's hand. One could turn a card or watch the flight of the birds.

Whatever the thing observed, one could find a connection with his experience of the moment. Actually, it wasn't that those things in themselves revealed anything at all. It was just that people looking at what was occurring around them could find a means of penetration to the soul of the world.

The desert was full of men who earned their living based on the ease with which they could penetrate to the soul of the world. They were known as seers and they were held in fear by women and the elderly. Tribesmen were also wary of consulting them, because it would be impossible to be effective in battle if one knew that he was fated to die.

The tribesmen preferred the taste of battle and the thrill of not knowing what the outcome would be. The future was already written by Allah, and what he had written was always for the good of man. So the tribesmen lived only for the present, because the present was full of surprises, and they had to be aware of many things.

Where was the enemy's sword? Where was his horse? What kind of blow should one deliver next in order to remain alive?

The camel driver was not a fighter and he had consulted with seers. Many of them had been right about what they said while some had been wrong. Then one day the oldest seer he had ever sought out and the one most to be feared had asked why the camel driver was so interested in the future.

Well, so I can do things, he had responded, and so I can change those things that I don't want to happen. But then they wouldn't be a part of your future, the seer had said. Well, maybe I just want to know the future so I can prepare myself for what's coming.

If good things are coming they will be a pleasant surprise, said the seer. If bad things are and you know in advance, you will suffer greatly before they even occur. I want to know about the future because I'm a man, the camel driver had said to the seer.

And men always live their lives based on the future. The seer was a specialist in the casting of twigs. He threw them on the ground and made interpretations based on how they fell.

That day he didn't make a cast. He wrapped the twigs in a piece of cloth and put them back in his bag. I make my living forecasting the future for people, he said.

I know the science of the twigs and I know how to use them to penetrate to the place where all is written. There I can read the past, discover what has already been forgotten, and understand the omens that are here in the present.