Part 2-4 I can always go back to being a shepherd the boy thought. I learned how to care for sheep and I haven't forgotten how that's done. But maybe I'll never have another chance to get to the pyramids in Egypt.

The old man wore a breastplate of gold and he knew about my past. He really was a king, a wise king. The hills of Andalusia were only two hours away, but there was an entire desert between him and the pyramids.

Yet the boy felt that there was another way to regard his situation. He was actually two hours closer to his treasure. The fact that the two hours had stretched into an entire year didn't matter.

I know why I want to get back to my flock, he thought. I understand sheep, they're no longer a problem and they can be good friends. On the other hand, I don't know if the desert can be a friend and it's in the desert that I have to search for my treasure.

If I don't find it, I can always go home. I finally have enough money and all the time I need. Why not?

He suddenly felt tremendously happy. He could always go back to being a shepherd. He could always become a crystal salesman again.

Maybe the world had other hidden treasures but he had a dream and he had met with a king. That doesn't happen to just anyone. He was planning as he left the bar.

He had remembered that one of the crystal merchant suppliers transported his crystal by means of caravans that crossed the desert. He held Urim and Thummim in his hand. Because of those two stones, he was once again on the way to his treasure.

I am always nearby when someone wants to realize their personal legend, the old king had told him. What could it cost to go over to the supplier's warehouse and find out if the pyramids were really that far away? The Englishman was sitting on a bench in a structure that smelled of animals, sweat and dust.

It was part warehouse, part corral. I never thought I'd end up in a place like this. He thought as he leafed through the pages of a chemical journal.

Ten years at the university and here I am in a corral. But he had to move on. He believed in omens.

All his life and all his studies were aimed at finding the one true language of the universe. First he had studied Esperanto than the world's religions and now it was alchemy. He knew how to speak Esperanto.

He understood all the major religions well, but he wasn't yet an alchemist. He had unraveled the truths behind important questions, but his studies had taken him to a point beyond which he could not seem to go. He had tried in vain to establish a relationship with an alchemist.

But the alchemists were strange people who thought only about themselves and almost always refused to help him. Who knows, maybe they had failed to discover the secret of the masterwork, the philosopher's stone, and for this reason kept their knowledge to themselves. He had already spent much of the fortune left to him by his father, fruitlessly seeking the philosopher's stone.

He had spent enormous amounts of time at the great libraries of the world and had purchased all the rarest and most important volumes on alchemy. In one he had read that many years ago a famous Arabian alchemist had visited Europe. It was said that he was more than 200 years old and that he had discovered the philosopher's stone and the elixir of life.

The Englishman had been profoundly impressed by the story. But he would never have thought it more than just a myth had not a friend of his returning from an archaeological expedition in the desert told him about an Arab that was possessed of exceptional powers. He lives at the Alfam Oasis, his friend had said, and people say that he is 200 years old and is able to transform any metal into gold.

The Englishman could not contain his excitement. He canceled all his commitments and pulled together the most important of his books, and now here he was sitting inside a dusty smelly warehouse. Outside, a huge caravan was being prepared for a crossing of the Sahara and was scheduled to pass through Alfam.

I'm going to find that damned alchemist, the Englishman thought, and the odor of the animals became a bit more tolerable. A young Arab also loaded down with baggage, entered and greeted the Englishman. Where are you bound?

asked the young Arab. I'm going into the desert, the man answered, turning back to his reading. He didn't want any conversation at this point.

What he needed to do was review all he had learned over the years, because the alchemist would certainly put him to the test. The young Arab took out a book and began to read. The book was written in Spanish.

That's good, thought the Englishman. He spoke Spanish better than Arabic, and if this boy was going to Alfam, there would be someone to talk to when there were no other important things to do. That's strange, said the boy, as he tried once again to read the burial scene that began the book.

I've been trying for two years to read this book, and I never get past these first few pages. Even without a king to provide an interruption, he was unable to concentrate. He still had some doubts about the decision he had made.

But he was able to understand one thing. Making a decision was only the beginning of things. When someone makes a decision, he is really diving into a strong current that will carry him to places he had never dreamed of when he first made the decision.

When I decided to seek out my treasure, I never imagined that I'd wind up working in a crystal shop, he thought. And joining this caravan may have been my decision, but where it goes is going to be a mystery to me. Nearby was the Englishman reading a book.

He seemed unfriendly and had looked irritated when the boy had entered. They might even have become friends, but the Englishman closed off the conversation.