So you want to know my hourly rate.
So my hourly rate's this times this.
So I have a question for you, client.
Why do you want to know my hourly rate?
I guess I want to know where my $18 ,000 is going.
Okay, so does that mean if I do work less hours, I should charge you less? Yeah.
So if I go over those hours, I should charge you more? Sure. Really? Yeah.
Okay, so you're saying to me, you value this logo taking longer rather than shorter.
So it means if I just tell you it took me four months to work on it, you will now owe me $36 ,000.
If it's in my budget and if I think you're worth it, but I would also ask, why would it take that long to make that logo?
I want to put a lot of effort into it.
But I could hire somebody else who would charge me the same rate but do it quicker.
So you value time over money then? Sure. As a business person, yeah. So here's the deal. I work really fast.
I can come up with a logo, but I'm being punished.
For me being efficient and really good. You understand? The logic doesn't work now. Sure. That's the problem.
So clients can't have it both ways.
They can't say, tell me how many hours, but you can't go over it.
I can't put a cap on it.
It has to have some symmetry to the logic.
So if I work less, you want me to pay me less.
So then there's a lot of analogies that you can draw now. Most business people value time.
Remember the beginning of our talk?
Time is the most important thing I have. That's it.
So if I could do a logo for you right now and you love it in five minutes, are you saying it's worth less than $18 or is it worth more now?
Because I saved you a lot of time.
We can go to market right now. It's worth more.
So charging by the hour punishes me for being good.
Now I'll tell you what, you can hire four interns straight out of school.
They'll charge a couple hundred bucks total and you'll wait.
And then you'll say it's not right, but you can't articulate to them and they don't know why. And you keep waiting. You keep revising.
And what aren't you doing now?
You're not running your business, Jung.
You be focused on your business.
So my job is this, Jung.
I'm going to give you an amazing logo that you're not going to have to change for a long time.
A mark that you're going to be proud of, that people are going to look at and clearly understand what it is that you do. It's worth $18 ,000 today.
Come back to me in a year. It'll be 26.